Style Expert
[Class] [Branch]
Prerequisites: 1 Pokemon with a Move matching your chosen Style
Static
Effect: Your Pokémon gain a +5 bonus to damage with attacks that match your chosen Style. Whenever your Pokémon use a non-damaging attack that matches your chosen Style, they gain a +1 bonus to Evasion for one full round.

Note: When you take Style Expert, choose from Beauty, Cool, Cute, Smart, or Tough. This becomes your Chosen Style. You may take Style Expert multiple times, each time choosing a different Style.

Style Flourish
[Branch]
Prerequisites: 2 Style Expert Features
1 AP – Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits with a Move of your Chosen Style
Effect: The Move gains a bonus corresponding to your chosen Style. Each effect may affect a foe only once per Scene.
Beauty: For 1 Full Round, attacks against the triggering Move’s targets gain a +2 bonus to Effect Range, and successful attacks that activate an Effect Range cause the target to lose a Tick of HP.
Cool: For 1 Full Round, targets of the attack cannot make Attacks of Opportunity or take actions as Reactions or Interrupts.
Cute: For 1 Full Round, targets of the attack take a -10 penalty to all Damage Rolls.
Smart: For 1 Full Round, targets of the attack cannot use Status-Class Moves, and may not take Swift Actions.
Tough: For 1 Full Round, targets of the attack are Slowed and cannot Disengage.

Style Adaptation
[Branch]
Prerequisites: Style Expert
1 AP - Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon uses a Move
Effect: For this use, treat the triggering Move as though it matched your chosen Style. Style Adaptation may be used only once per Pokémon per Scene.

Style Entrainment
[Branch]
Prerequisites: 4 Style Expert Features
1 AP – Swift Action, Priority (Limited)
Target: Your Pokémon
Effect: Your Pokémon gains one of the following Abilities corresponding to your chosen Style for the rest of the Scene. Style Entrainment may only grant one Ability at a time. If it is used a second time, it replaces the first granted Ability.
Beauty gives Gentle Vibe or Serene Grace
Cool gives Defiant or Sniper
Cute gives Cute Charm or Cute Tears
Smart gives Analytic or Filter
Tough gives Sturdy or Intimidate

Beauty Expert
Beautiful Ballet
[Ranked 2]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Style Expert, Beauty as Chosen Style, Novice Intuition
Rank 2 Prerequisites: Expert Intuition
1 AP - Special
Effect: Your Pokémon may activate Beautiful Ballet as a Standard Action to perform one of the following Moves. Once per Scene per Rank, Beautiful Ballet may be activated as a Shift Action. The user must still follow frequency limits as usual for these Moves.
Rank 1: Captivate, Mist
Rank 2: Lovely Kiss, Mean Look

Fabulous Max
Prerequisites: Beautiful Ballet Rank 1
At-Will – Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon uses a Beauty Move
Battle Effect: The move gains the keyword Burst 1 if Melee, or Blast 2 if ranged. If the move is already a Burst, Blast, or Cone, increase the size of the Move's Range by 1. This does not cause a target to be hit multiple times.

Enticing Beauty
Prerequisites: Beautiful Ballet Rank 1
Scene x2 – Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits with a Beauty Move
Effect: All targets hit by the attack become Infatuated with your Pokémon. This may affect a foe only once per Scene.


Cool Expert

Cool Conduct
[Ranked 2]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Style Expert, Cool as Chosen Style, Novice Command
Rank 2 Prerequisites: Expert Command
1 AP - Special
Effect: Your Pokémon may activate Cool Conduct as a Standard Action to perform one of the following Moves. Once per Scene per Rank, Cool Conduct may be activated as a Shift Action. The user must still follow frequency limits as usual for these Moves.
Rank 1: Focus Energy, Noble Roar
Rank 2: Roar, Double Team

Rule of Cool
Prerequisites: Cool Conduct Rank 1
At-Will – Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon uses a Cool Move
Effect: The triggering Move's Crit Range is increased by 3, and Moves with the Interrupt or Shield Keywords may not be activated in reaction to this Move. The triggering Move may not be Intercepted. You may activate Rule of Cool only once per Pokémon per Scene.

Action Hero Stunt
Prerequisites: Cool Conduct Rank 1
Daily x3 – Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon makes a Skill Check for a dramatic, high risk action
Effect: Your Pokemon gains a +3 bonus to the triggering check. If the check is successful, you gain a Stunt Token. You may have a number of Stunt Tokens up to half your Command Rank, and they disappear at the end of the day. Stunt Tokens may be spent as a Swift Action once per Pokemon per Scene to cause that Pokemon to gain +2 Combat Stages in a stat of your choice. 
Example Trigger: Charging into a burning building for a heroic rescue


Cute Expert

Cute Cuddle
[Ranked 2]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Style Expert, Cute as Chosen Style, Novice Charm
Rank 2 Prerequisites: Expert Charm
1 AP - Special
Effect: Your Pokémon may activate Cute Cuddle as a Standard Action to perform one of the following Moves. Once per Scene per Rank, Cute Cuddle may be activated as a Shift Action. The user must still follow frequency limits as usual for these Moves.
Rank 1: Charm, Block
Rank 2: Teeter Dance, Attract

Gleeful Steps
Prerequisites: Cute Cuddle Rank 1
At-Will – Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon uses a Cute Move
Effect: Your Pokémon may immediately Disengage up to half their Movement speed in any direction after the Move is resolved. If they end this movement next to a foe, that foe takes a -2 penalty to Save Checks, Skill Checks, and Evasion for 1 Full Round. You may activate Gleeful Steps only once per Pokémon per Scene.

Let's Be Friends!
Prerequisites: Cute Cuddle Rank 1
Scene – Free Action
Target: Your Pokémon and a number of foes up to half your Charm Rank
Effect: For one Full Round, your targeted Pokemon is treated in all ways as the targeted foes’ Ally for both parties’ Moves, Abilities, and Features. Those foes may not include your targeted Pokemon as a target of a Damaging Move on their next turn, unless that Move has the Friendly keyword.


Smart Expert

Smart Scheme
[Ranked 2]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Style Expert, Smart as Chosen Style, Novice Guile
Rank 2 Prerequisites: Expert Guile
1 AP - Special
Effect: Your Pokémon may activate Smart Scheme as a Standard Action to perform one of the following Moves. Once per Scene per Rank, Smart Scheme may be activated as a Shift Action. The user must still follow frequency limits as usual for these Moves.
Rank 1: Fake Tears, Calm Mind
Rank 2: Taunt, Flatter

Calculated Assault
Prerequisites: Smart Scheme Rank 1
At-Will – Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon uses a Smart Move
Effect: Choose one: The triggering Move gains a +1 bonus on its Accuracy Roll for each ally that attacked a target of the Move this round, or all allies get a +1 bonus to their Accuracy and Evasion against targets of the triggering Move until the end of your next turn.

Learn From Your Mistakes
Prerequisites: Smart Scheme Rank 1
Daily x3 – Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon fails a Skill Check, or misses with an attack
Effect: Your Pokémon may re-roll the Skill Check or Accuracy check with a Bonus equal to your Guile Rank. Learn From Your Mistakes may only be used once per Scene.


Tough Expert

Tough Tumble
[Ranked 2]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Style Expert, Tough as Chosen Style, Novice Intimidate
Rank 2 Prerequisites: Expert Intimidate
1 AP - Special
Effect: Your Pokémon may activate Tough Tumble as a Standard Action to perform one of the following Moves. Once per Scene per Rank, Tough Tumble may be activated as a Shift Action. The user must still follow frequency limits as usual for these Moves.
Rank 1: Scary Face, Disable
Rank 2: Glare, Bide

Macho Charge
Prerequisites: Tough Tumble Rank 1
At-Will – Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon uses a Tough Move
Effect: All targets hit by the Move lose a Tick of Hit Points and are Pushed 3 meters. You may activate Macho Charge only once per Scene per Pokemon.

Endurance
Prerequisites: Tough Tumble Rank 1
Scene x2 – Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon takes falling damage, begins to suffocate, would gain an Injury, or is Heavily Injured.
Effect: Your Pokémon can ignore up to X meters of falling when calculating falling damage, act without beginning to suffocate for X additional rounds, ignore the Hit Point loss effects from acting while Heavily Injured for X rounds, or not gain an Injury. X is equal to half your Intimidate rank. Endurance may only be used once per Pokémon  per Scene.