Feb 2016 Playtest
3
Altered Abilities
Ability: Abominable
Static
Effect: The user's Base HP is increased by +5. Additionally,
the user ignores the Recoil Keyword when attacking.
Ability: Adaptability
Static
Effect: The user gains a +1d10 Bonus to Damage Rolls with
Moves with which they apply STAB.
Ability: Aftermath
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user becomes Fainted
Effect: The user creates a Burst 1. Everything in the Burst
loses three Ticks of Hit Points.
Ability: Ambush
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: The user may activate this Ability to use a Move
with a Damage Base of 6 (before applying STAB or other
modifiers) or lower as if it had the Priority keyword. If it
hits, the target is Flinched and has a -2 penalty to Accuracy
Rolls for 1 full round.
Ability: Arena Trap
Scene ­ Free Action
Target: Pokémon or Trainers
Effect: Once Arena Trap is activated, all foes within 5
meters of the user are considered Slowed and Trapped.
This does not affect targets of the Flying Type, or with a
Levitate, Sky, or Burrow Speed of 4 or higher. The user
may end the effect as a Free Action, and the effect ends
if the user is Fainted or returned to a Poké Ball.
Ability: Aroma Veil
Static
Effect: The user and all adjacent Pokémon and Trainers
cannot become Confused, Enraged, or Suppressed.
Defensive.
Ability: Aura Break
Scene - Swift Action
Target: A foe within 6 meters
Effect: The foe reveals its abilities. Pick one ability; any
Damage Bonuses (either Damage Base increases or Damage
Roll bonuses) granted by the ability instead become
Damage Penalties of the same value.
Ability: Aura Storm
Static
Effect: For each injury the user has, they gain a +3 Bonus to
Damage Rolls.
Ability: Bad Dreams
At-Will - Swift Action
Effect: All Sleeping targets within 5 meters lose a Tick of
Hit Points. If at least one target lost Hit Points this way, the
user gains a tick of Temporary Hit Points.
Ability: Beautiful
Scene ­ Standard Action
Effect: The user may activate Beautiful to either gain +2
Beauty Dice in a Contest, or to gain +1 Special Attack
Combat Stage and cure all allies within 5 meters of the
Enraged Condition.
Ability: Blow Away
Static
Effect: Connection - Whirlwind. When the user uses
Whirlwind, all targets hit are pushed an additional 2 meters
and lose a Tick of Hit Points.
Ability: Bodyguard
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: An adjacent Ally is hit by an attack
Effect: The user and the triggering Ally switch places, and
the user becomes the target of the triggering attack instead,
taking damage from the attack as if resisted one step further.
If switching places would not move the triggering Ally out
of the area-of-effect of a Burst, Blast, Cone, or Line, this
Ability does not prevent the ally from being hit. Defensive.
Ability: Bone Lord
At-Will - Free Action
Trigger: You hit with Bone Club, Bonemerang, or Bone
Rush
Effect: Connection ­ Bonemerang. Once per Scene per
Move, the following Moves may be used as if they had the
following bonuses:
- Bone Club: Bone Club's target loses 1 Defense and Special
Attack CS.
- Bonemerang: Has a Range of Line 6 but loses the Double
Strike keyword
- Bone Rush: Bone Rush automatically `hits' four times (as
per the Five Strike keyword).
Feb 2016 Playtest
4
Ability: Bone Wielder
Static
Effect: The user's Bone Club, Bonemerang, and Bone Rush
Moves ignore immunity against Ground-Type Moves.
Ability: Brimstone
Static
Effect: Whenever the user inflicts Burn or Poison with
a damaging Fire-Type or Poison-Type Attack, the target
becomes both Burned and Poisoned.
Ability: Celebrate
At-Will ­ Swift Action
Trigger: The user hits a foe with a damaging attack
Effect: The user may immediately Disengage as a Free
Action.
Bonus: Whenever the user Disengages for any reason, they
may Shift 2 meters instead of 1.
Ability: Chlorophyll
Static
Effect: While in Sunny Weather or under 50% Max Hit
Points, the user's Initiative is doubled.
Ability: Clay Cannons
At-Will ­ Swift Action
Effect: Until the end of the round, the user may originate
any Ranged Move they use from any square within 2 meters
of itself.
Ability: Damp
Static
Effect: Whenever anyone within 10 meters would use the
Moves Self-Destruct or Explosion or activate the Aftermath
Ability, those effects fail and instead do nothing.
Bonus: The user gains a +1d10 Bonus to Damage Rolls with
Water-Typed Moves.
Ability: Danger Syrup
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by an attack
Effect: Connection - Sweet Scent. When this Ability is
activated the user may use Sweet Scent as a Free Action,
ignoring Frequency. Whenever the user hits a foe with
Sweet Scent, that foe is Blinded for 1 full round.
Ability: Defeatist
Static
Effect: The user gain a +2d6 Bonus to Damage Rolls while
over 50% of its Maximum Hit Points. While at 50% Max Hit
Points or lower, the user gains a -5 penalty to Damage Rolls
and +10 Initiative.
Ability: Defy Death
At-Will ­ Swift Action
Effect: The user instantly removes up to three injuries, and
gains a Tick of Hit Points for each injury removed this way.
Defy Death may be used to cure up to three Injuries per
day. Injuries removed this way do not count towards the
total number of injuries that can be healed per day.
Ability: Desert Weather
Static
Effect: The user is immune to Sandstorm Damage,
resists Fire-Type Moves in Sunny Weather, and gains
a Tick of Temporary Hit Points at the end of each of
its turns while in Rainy Weather.
Ability: Download
Scene ­ Swift Action
Target: Trainer or Pokémon
Effect: The target must reveal whether its Defense or Special
Defense Stats are lower. If the Defense Stat is lower, the user
gains a +1 Attack CS. If the Special Defense Stat is lower,
the user instead gains +1 Special Attack CS. If both are tied,
the user gains +1 CS to any Stat of their choice.
Ability: Dreamspinner
Scene x3 ­ Swift Action
Effect: All Sleeping Foes within 3 meters lose a Tick of Hit
Points, and the user gains a Tick of Temporary Hit Points.
Ability: Drizzle
Scene x3 ­ Swift Action
Effect: The Weather changes to be Rainy for 1 full round.
Ability: Drought
Scene x3 ­ Swift Action
Effect: The Weather changes to be Sunny for 1 full round.
Ability: Drown Out
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: A foe uses a Move with the Sonic keyword
Effect: The triggering Move fails and has no effect.
Ability: Dust Cloud
Static
Effect: Connection - Poison Powder. The user may use
Moves with the Powder Keyword as if they had a Range of
"Burst 1".
Ability: Early Bird
Static
Effect: The user gains a bonus to Initiative equal to half its
Speed, and a +3 Bonus on Save Checks against Sleep.
Feb 2016 Playtest
5
Ability: Electrodash
Scene x2 ­ Swift Action
Effect: The user may make a Sprint Action as a Free Action.
Bonus: The user may free itself from the Stuck condition
as a Shift Action. The user does not provoke Attacks of
Opportunity when Sprinting.
Ability: Filter
Static
Effect: The user gains +5 Damage Reduction against Super-
Effective damage. Defensive.
Ability: Flash Fire
Static
Effect: The user is immune to the damage and effects of
Fire-Type attacks. If the user is hit by a Fire-Type attack,
they gain +1 CS in their choice of Attack or Special Attack.
Defensive.
Ability: Flare Boost
Scene - Swift Action
Effect: The user gains +3Attack and Special Attack Combat
Stages. Flare Boost may only be used while Burned.
Ability: Flower Gift
Scene ­ Swift Action
Effect: Flower Gift may only be used if the Weather is Sunny
or if the user is under 50% Hit Points. When activated, the
user may pick two Stats, gaining +2 Combat Stages in each
Stat. All targets within 2 meters also gain +1 Combat Stage
in each of the chosen Stats.
Ability: Flower Veil
Static
Effect: Grass-Type Pokemon within 5 meters cannot have
their Combat Stages lowered.
Ability: Fox Fire
Scene ­ Standard Action
Effect: Connection - Ember. The user creates 3 Fire Wisps.
Whenever the user is targeted by a foe within 6 meters, they
may spend a Fire Wisp as to use the Move Ember against
that foe as a Free Action after the triggering Move is
resolved.
Ability: Frisk
At-Will ­ Swift Action
Target: An Adjacent Pokémon
Effect: The target reveals their Type, Ability, Nature,
Level, and name of any Held Items they are currently
holding, if any.
Ability: Gale Wings
Scene x2 - Free Action, Priority
Effect: The user may activate Gale Wings to use a Flying-
Type Move with Priority. If the Move is a Damaging Move,
the user adds half their Speed Stat to the Damage Roll.
Ability: Gluttony
Static
Effect: The user may have up to three Food Buffs at once,
use up to three Food Buffs per Scene, and may eat two
refreshments per half hour.
Ability: Gore
Scene x2 - Swift Action
Trigger: The user uses Horn Attack
Effect: Connection - Horn Attack. Horn Attack gains the
Double Strike keyword, and pushes its target 2 meters.
Ability: Grass Pelt
Scene - Swift Action
Effect: The user gains two ticks worth of Temporary Hit
Points.
Bonus: When standing on any grassy or leafy terrain that
is either Slow or Rough Terrain, the user gains +5 Damage
Reduction. Defensive.
Ability: Heatproof
Static
Effect: The user resists Fire Type movesf one step further,
and does not lose Hit Points from the Burn Condition.
Ability: Heavy Metal
Static
Effect: The user's Weight Class is increased by +2. Their
Defense Base Stat is increased by +2, but their Speed Base
Stat is decreased by 2.
Ability: Honey Paws
Static
Effect: The user may consume Honey to gain a Food
Buff as if they had consumed Leftovers. This Food
Buff does not count against their normal limit.
Ability: Huge Power / Pure Power
Static
Effect: The user's Base Attack Stat is increased by +5, and
by +1 more for every 10 Levels the user has. This Ability
cannot be disabled in any way.
Ability: Hustle
Static
Effect: The user receives a -2 penalty to all Accuracy
Rolls and gains a +10 Bonus to All Damage Rolls.
Feb 2016 Playtest
6
Ability: Hydration
Scene - Swift Action
Effect: The user is cured of one Status Affliction. Hydration's
Frequency is ignored if used during Rainy Weather.
Ability: Ice Body
Daily x5 - Swift Action
Effect: The user gains a Tick of Hit Points. Ice Body may
only be used while the user is under 50% Hit Points or in
Hailing Weather.
Bonus: The user is immune to Hit Point loss from Hail
Ability: Imposter
Static
Effect: If the user is not Transformed, they may use
Transform as a Free-Action Interrupt.
Ability: Inner Focus
Static
Effect: The user cannot be Flinched, and their Initiative
cannot be unwillingly lowered by any effects.
Ability: Interference
Scene - Swift Action
Effect: The accuracy of all foes within 3 meters is
reduced by -2 for 1 full round.
Ability: Intimidate
At-Will ­ Swift Action
Target: Pokémon or Trainer within 5 meters
Effect: Lower the target's Attack 1 Combat Stage. You may
target a specific foe only once per Scene with Intimidate.
Ability: Justified
At-Will - Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a damaging Dark Type Move or
Attack of Opportunity
Effect: The user may raise its Attack by +1 Combat Stage.
Bonus: The user always gains a +4 bonus to Skill Checks
made to Intercept.
Ability: Kampfgeist
Scene - Free Action
Trigger: The user takes Bug, Dark, or Rock-Type Damage
Effect: The triggering damage is resisted one step further.
Bonus: The user gains STAB on Fighting-Type Moves.
Ability: Leaf Guard
Scene - Swift Action
Effect: The user is cured of one Status Affliction. Leaf
Guard's Frequency is ignored if used during Sunny Weather.
Ability: Life Force
Daily x5 ­ Swift Action
Effect: The user gains a Tick of Hit Points.
Ability: Light Metal
Static
Effect: The user's Weight Class is decreased by 2. Their
Speed Base Stat is increased by +2, but their Defense Base
Stat is decreased by 2.
Ability: Lightning Kicks
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: The user may activate this Ability to use any Move
with "Kick" in the name as a Priority Move, and gain a +4
Bonus to the attack's Accuracy Roll.
Ability: Lightning Rod
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: A ranged Electric Type Move is used within 10
Meters of the user.
Effect: The Move is turned into a 1-Target Move and
is re-directed at the user without fail, and cannot miss.
This negates Lock-On or Mind Reader. The user's Special
Attack is then raised by +1 Combat Stage.
Bonus: The user is immune to the damage and effects of
Electric Type attacks. Defensive.
Ability: Liquid Ooze
Static
Effect: This user resists Poison-Type Damage one step
further. Additionally, when this user is damaged by Absorb,
Drain Punch, Giga Drain, Horn Leech, Leech Life, or Mega
Drain, that Move gains Recoil ½ and the Move's user does
not gain any HP. If the user is hit by Leech Seed, the user
does not lose Hit Points from Leech Seed; instead Leech
Seed's user loses Hit Points equal to this user's Tick Value.
Ability: Lunchbox
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user trades in a Food Buff
Effect: The user gains a Tick of Temporary Hit Points. These
Temporary Hit Points stack with any Temporary Hit Points
granted by the triggering Food Buff.
Ability: Magma Armor
Static
Effect: Whenever a foe hits you with a Melee Attack or ends
their turn grappling you, they lose a tick of Hit Points. Foes
immune to Burn do not suffer this effect.
Bonus: The user cannot be Frozen. Defensive.
Feb 2016 Playtest
7
Ability: Magnet Pull
Scene x3 ­ Swift Action
Target: A Steel-Type Pokémon within 6 meters
Effect: Pick Two Effects;
- The target is pushed or pulled X meters directly away
or towards the user. X is up to 6 meters minus the target's
Weight Class.
- Until the end of the user's next turn, the target may not
move more then 6 meters away from the user .
- Until the end of the user's next turn, the target may not
move closer than 3 meters ot the user.
Ability: Mega Launcher
Static
Effect: The user increases the Damage Base of Aura Sphere,
Dark Pulse, Dragon Pulse, and Water Pulse by +3.
Ability: Memory Wipe
Scene - Special
Target: A foe within 10 meters
Effect: If used as a Swift Action, the last Move used by the
target becomes Disabled. If used as a Standard Action, the
target is Flinched and Paralyzed. If used as an Extended
Action that takes about 1 minute, it can erase up to 10
minutes that have occurred within the last 30 minutes from
the target's memory.
Ability: Migraine
Scene x2 - Free Action
Trigger: The user hits with Confusion while at 50% Hit
Points or less
Effect: Connection - Confusion. Confusion automatically
gives its target the Confusion Affliction and is a Critical Hit.
Ability: Moody
Static
Effect: At the end of the user's turn, roll 1d6 to determine
a Stat to be raised by +2 Combat Stages, then roll 1d6 to
determine a Stat to be lowered by 1 Combat Stage. 1 is
Attack, 2 is Defense, 3 is Special Attack, 4 is Special Defense,
5 is Speed, and 6 is Accuracy.
Ability: Multiscale
Static
Effect: While at full Hit Points, all damage taken is resisted
one step further. Defensive.
Ability: Mummy
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Melee Attack
Effect: Disable one of the user's Abilities for the rest of the
Scene or until they are switched out.
Ability: No Guard
Static
Effect: The user gains a +3 bonus to all Attack Rolls;
however all foes gain a +3 Bonus on Attack Rolls against the
user.
Ability: Normalize
Static
Effect: The user's attacks cannot deal Super-Effective or
Resisted Damage; they instead resolve as if dealing Neutral
Damage. The user also takes neutral damage from all
attacks to which they are not immune. This does not affect
Immunities.
Ability: Odious Spray
Static
Effect: Connection - Poison Gas. The user may use Poison
Gas as if it had a Range "8, 1 Target", an AC of 2, and
Flinched its target when it hit.
Ability: Perception
Static
Effect: The user gains +1 Evasion. Whenever an Ally uses a
damaging area-of-effect attack that would hit you, you may
Disengage as a Free Action before the attack resolves.
Ability: Permafrost
Static
Effect: The user is immune to damage and Hit Point
loss from Hazards, Weather, Status Afflictions, Vortexes,
Recoil, Hay Fever, Iron Barbs, Rough Skin, and Leech Seed.
Defensive.
Ability: Poltergeist
Static
Effect: Rotom gains an Ability depending on
what Form it has taken. If Rotom is level 40 or higher, it also
may use a Move based on its Forme as if it that Move was
on their Move List.
 Ability Move
Standard Rotom: Levitate None
Heat Rotom: Flash Fire Overheat
Wash Rotom: Water Absorb Hydro Pump
Frost Rotom: Winter's Kiss Blizzard
Fan Rotom: Windveiled Hurricane
Mow Rotom: Sap Sipper Leaf Storm
Ability: Pressure
Scene - Swift Action
Effect: All foes within 3 meters are Suppressed for 1 full
round.
Feb 2016 Playtest
8
Ability: Prime Fury
Scene ­ Swift Action
Effect: The user becomes Enraged, and gains +1 Combat
Stage in each of Attack and Special Attack.
Ability: Pumpkingrab
Scene - Standard Action
Effect: The user automatically Grapples an adjacent foe and
gains dominance.
Ability: Quick Curl
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: Connection - Defense Curl. The user may activate
this Ability to use Defense Curl as an Standard Action
Interrupt and gain +10 Damage Reduction for 1 full round.
Ability: Quick Feet
Static
Effect: When Poisoned, Burned, Paralyzed, Frozen or put to
Sleep, the user's Speed is raised 2 Combat Stages. The user's
Initiative is not halved by Paralysis. If the user is healed all
Status Conditions, their Speed is lowered appropriately.
Ability: Rain Dish
Daily x5 - Swift Action
Effect: The user gains a Tick of Hit Points. Rain Dish may
only be used while the user is under 50% Hit Points or in
Rainy Weather.
Ability: Rally
Scene ­ Swift Action
Effect: The user and all allies within 10 meters may
immediately Disengage 1 Meter as a free Action. Rally does
not work on sleeping, paralyzed, stuck, fainted, or otherwise
incapacitated allies.
Ability: Rattled
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Bug, Dark, or Ghost Type Move
Effect: The user's Speed is raised by +1 Combat Stage, and
may immediately Disengage as a Free Action.
Ability: Reckless
Static
Effect: Increases the Damage Base of Moves with the
Exhaust, Recoil, or Reckless Keywords by +3.
Reckless Moves: Jump Kick, Hi Jump Kick, Close Combat,
Draco Meteor, Hammer Arm, Leaf Storm, Outrage,
Overheat, Petal Dance, Psycho Boost, Superpower, Thrash,
and V-Create.
Ability: Regal Challenge
Scene ­ Swift Action
Target: Pokémon or Trainer within 5 Meters
Effect: Ask the target if they will show deference or
defiance. If they choose Deference, the target loses their
next Shift action and loses 3 CS in the Stat of the user's
choice. If they choose Defiance, the user gains a +10 Bonus
to all Damage Rolls for the rest of the Scene.
Ability: Rock Head
Static
Effect: The user ignores the Recoil keyword when attacking.
If the user moves at least 4 meters in a straight line towards
a foe before attacking that foe with a physical attack, they
may add a +2d6 Bonus to the Damage Roll against that foe.
Ability: Rocket
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: A Round Begins
Effect: The user may take their turn at the top of the round.
Priority, Interrupt, or Reaction Moves or Abilities cannot be
declared in response to the user's turn.
Bonus: The user's Sky capability is increased by +2
Ability: Root Down
At-Will ­ Shift Action
Effect: Connection - Ingrain. While the user has the Ingrain
Coat, they may activate this Ability to gain 5 Damage
Reduction.
Ability: Run Away
Static
Effect: The user does not provoke Attacks of Opportunity
by Shifting. The user cannot be Trapped.
Ability: Sap Sipper
Scene
Effect: The user is immune to the damage and effects of
Grass-Type attacks. If the user is hit by a Grass-Type attack,
they gain +1 CS in their choice of Attack or Special Attack.
Defensive.
Ability: Sand Force
Static
Effect: While on sandy terrain or in Sandstorms, the user's
Ground, Rock, and Steel-Typed damaging moves deal +5
Damage.
Bonus: The user is immune to Hit Point loss from
Sandstorms.
Feb 2016 Playtest
9
Ability: Sand Rush
Static
Effect: While in Sandstorming Weather or under 50% Max
Hit Points, the user's Initiative is doubled.
Bonus: The user is immune to Hit Point loss from
Sandstorms.
Ability: Sand Stream
Scene x3 ­ Swift Action
Effect: The Weather changes to a Sandstorm for 1 full
round.
Bonus: The user is immune to Hit Point loss from
Sandstorms.
Ability: Sand Veil
Static
Effect: The user gains +1 Evasion. This is increased to +2
Evasion while in a Sandstorm or sandy terrain. While in
a Sandstorm, the user and adjacent allies do not lose Hit
Points due to the Sandstorm.
Ability: Sequence
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user uses an Electric Attack
Effect: For every Electric-Type Pokémon adjacent
to the user, the triggering Attack deals an additional +3
Damage.
Ability: Shackle
Scene ­ Swift Action
Effect: Shackle creates a Burst 3. All foes in the burst
have their movement capabilities halved until the end
of their next turn.
Ability: Sheer Force
Static
Effect: Moves with an Effect Range gain a +10 Bonus to
Damage, but Effect Ranges can never be triggered.
Ability: Serpent's Mark
Static
Effect: Arbok's Advanced and High Abilities depend on
the Arbok's hood pattern. To determine its pattern, roll
1d6 upon evolution or upon generation. If an Arbok is
bred, it will have the same pattern as its parent. If both
parents are Arboks with different patterns, flip a coin to
decide which pattern is inherited.
Pattern Name - Adv Ability / High Ability
1) Attack Pattern - Strong Jaw / Guts
2) Crush Pattern - Crush Trap / Frisk
3) Fear Pattern - Unnerve / Regal Challenge
4) Life Pattern ­ Regenerator / Defy Death
5) Speed Pattern - Run Away / Speed Boost
6) Stealth Pattern - Infiltrator / Ambush
Ability: Shell Shield
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: Connection - Withdraw. The user may activate this
Ability to use Withdraw as an Standard Action Interrupt
and gain +10 Damage Reduction for 1 full round.
Ability: Silk Threads
Static
Effect: Connection - String Shot. Whenever the user uses
String Shot, all targets hit become Slowed and Vulnerable
for 1 full round.
Ability: Sniper
Static
Effect: When the user gets a Critical Hit, the attack deals
+3d10 additional damage.
Ability: Snow Cloak
Static
Effect: The user gains +1 Evasion. This is increased to +2
Evasion while in Hail or snowy terrain. While in Hail, the
user and adjacent allies do not lose Hit Points due to the
Hail.
Ability: Solar Power
Scene x2- Swift Action
Trigger: The user rolls Damage
Effect: The user loses a Tick of Hit Points, and gains a bonus
to the triggering damage roll equal to 5 + their Tick Value.
Solar Power may be activated ignoring Frequency while in
Sunny Weather.
Ability: Solid Rock
Static
Effect: The user gains +5 Damage Reduction against Super-
Effective damage. Defensive.
Ability: Sonic Courtship
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user uses Attract
Effect: Connection - Attract. The user may use Attract as if
it had a range of "Burst 3, Sonic, Friendly".
Ability: Soothing Tone
Static
Effect: Connection - Heal Bell. Whenever the user uses
a Move that targets allies, those allies gain temporary Hit
Points equal to the user's Special Attack. This may affect a
specific ally only once per Scene.
Feb 2016 Playtest
10
Ability: Soulstealer
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user's attack causes a foe to Faint
Effect: The user removes one Injury from themselves and
gains Hit Points equal to 25% of their Max Hit Points. If the
triggering attack killed its target, the user instead removes
all Injuries and recovers Hit Points equal to 50% of the
user's Max Hit Points.
Ability: Sound Lance
Scene x2 - Swift Action
Trigger: The user uses Supersonic
Effect: Connection ­ Supersonic. The target of Supersonic
loses Hit Points equal to the user's Special Attack. This
occurs even if Supersonic misses.
Ability: Spray Down
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user hits an airborne target with a ranged
1-target attack
Effect: The triggering attack's target is knocked down to
ground level, and loses all Sky or Levitate Speeds for 3 turns.
During this time, they may be hit by Ground-Type Moves
even if normally immune.
Ability: Sprint
Scene ­ Swift Action
Trigger: The user uses the Sprint Action during Combat
Effect: The user gains +2 Speed Combat Stages.
Bonus: The user's Overland Speed is increased by +2.
Ability: Starlight
Daily ­ Swift Action
Effect: The user may activate Starlight while exposed to
moonlight or starlight to become Luminous. As a Swift
Action, the user may expend the Luminous condition to
gain +2 Special Defense CS and +2 Evasion for the rest of
the Scene.
Ability: Starswirl
Scene ­ Swift Action
Effect: Connection ­ Rapid Spin. The user may activate this
Ability to user Rapid Spin as a Swift Action.
Ability: Steadfast
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user would be Flinched
Effect: The user's Speed is raised by +1 Combat Stage.
Bonus: The user's Initiative is increased by +5.
Ability: Stench
Static
Effect: The Pokémon's Moves Flinch Targets on a roll of
18+. If a move already has a chance of Flinching foes, the
Effect Range is increased by +3 instead. Whenever the user
Flinches a foe with an attack, that foe gains a -2 penalty to
Accuracy Rolls for 1 full round.
Ability: Storm Drain
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: A ranged Water Type Move is used within 10
Meters of the user.
Effect: The Move is turned into a 1-Target Move and
is re-directed at the user without fail, and cannot miss.
This negates Lock-On or Mind Reader. the user's Special
Attack is then raised by +1 Combat Stage.
Bonus: The user is immune to the damage and effects of
Water Type attacks. Defensive.
Ability: Sturdy
Static
Effect: The user is immune to Moves with the Execute
Keyword. If a single source of Damage or Hit Point Loss
would cause the user to lose more than X Hit Points, the
damage or Hit Point loss is instead reduced to X. X is equal
to 50% of their Max Hit Points. Defensive.
Ability: Suction Cups
At-Will - Shift Action
Effect: The user gains +5 Damage Reduction for 1 full
round.
Bonus: The user is immune to Push effects. Defensive.
Ability: Sumo Stance
At-Will - Shift Action
Trigger: The user hits a foe with a Melee Attack
Effect: The triggering foe is Pushed 1 meter away from the
user and the user is immune to Push Effects for 1 full round.
Bonus: The user's Weight Class is increased by +1.
Ability: Sunglow
Daily ­ Swift Action
Effect: The user may activate Sunglow while exposed to
sunlight to become Radiant. As a Swift Action, the user may
expend the Radiant condition to gain +2 Attack CS and +2
Accuracy for the rest of the Scene.
Ability: Sun Blanket
Daily x5 - Swift Action
Trigger: The user gains Initiative.
Effect: The user gains a Tick of Hit Points. Sun Blanket may
only be triggered while the user is under 50% Hit Points or
in Sunny Weather.
Feb 2016 Playtest
11
Ability: Swift Swim
Static
Effect: While in Rainy Weather or under 50% Max Hit
Points, the user's Initiative is doubled.
Ability: Symbiosis
Scene - Swift Action
Target: An adjacent ally
Effect: The user choses a Held Item they are holding. If the
target is willing, they also gain the effects of the chosen
item for the rest of the Scene. Items that are activated at a
frequency may be activated independently by the user and
the the target.
Ability: Tangled Feet
Static
Effect: While Confused or Slowed, the user gains +3
Evasion. The user is immune to the Vulnerable Condition.
Ability: Telepathy
Static
Effect: The user gains +1 Evasion. Whenever an Ally uses a
damaging area-of-effect attack that would hit you, you may
Disengage as a Free Action before the attack resolves.
Ability: Teravolt
Static
Effect: The user's Electric-Type Attacks ignore the effect of
enemies' Defensive Abilities, and if they would be resisted
they deal neutral damage instead.
Ability: Toxic Boost
Scene - Swift Action
Effect: The user gains +3 Attack and Special Attack Combat
Stages. Toxic Boost may only be used while Poisoned or
Badly Poisoned.
Special: If the user has the Immunity Ability, they can still
become Poisoned and Badly Poisoned but do not lose Hit
Points from these conditions.
Ability: Transporter
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: You Teleport
Choose One Effect: Connection ­ Teleport. You activate
Teleporter as if your Teleporter value were three times
its normal value; or you may take one willing adjacent
Pokémon or Trainer along with you as you teleport so long
as you are touching them when you activate Transporter.
You may expend two uses of Transporter at once to choose
both effects.
Ability: Turboblaze
Static
Effect: The user's Fire-Type Attacks ignore the effect of
enemies' Defensive Abilities, and if they would be resisted
they deal neutral damage instead.
Ability: Unburden
Static
Effect: The default state of the user's Speed is +2 Combat
Stages. While holding a Held Item, the user's Speed is
lowered by 2 Combat Stages.
Ability: Unnerve
At-Will - Swift Action
Target: A foe within 6 meters
Effect: The target cannot gain positive Combat Stages or
trade in Digestion Buffs for 1 full round.
Ability: Whirlwind Kicks
Static
Effect: Connection ­ Triple Kick. When the user uses
the Moves "Rapid Spin" or "Triple Kick", they have a range
of "Burst 1".
Ability: Windveiled
Static
Effect: The user is immune to the damage and effects of
Flying-Type attacks. If the user is hit by a Flying-Type
attack, the user gains +1 Speed CS. Defensive.
Ability: Zen Mode
Scene - Swift Action
Effect: The user changes into Zen Mode forme for the rest
of the Scene, and may use the Moves "Flamethrower" and
"Psychic" as if they were on its Move List.
