Indices and Reference
311
Ability List: A­E
Ability: Abominable
Static
Effect: The user ignores the Recoil Keyword when
attacking, and does not gain injuries from Massive
Damage.
Ability: Absorb Force
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is damaged by a Physical Attack
Effect: The user takes damage as if the attack was
resisted one step further.
Ability: Adaptability
Static
Effect: Increase the Damage of all Moves with which
the user shares an Elemental Type by +1 Damage Base.
Ability: Aerilate
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user uses a Normal-Type damaging Move
Effect: The Move is changed to be Flying-Type.
Ability: Aftermath
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: When the user is reduced to 0 Hit Points or less,
they create a Burst 1. Everything in the Burst loses ¼ of
its Max Hit Points.
Ability: Air Lock
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: The weather is set to normal as long as the
Pokémon with Air Lock wants it to remain that way.
The user may continue to sustain this effect as a Swift
Action each round.
Ability: Ambush
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: The user may use a Melee Move with a Damage
Base of 6 (before applying STAB or other modifiers)
or lower as if it had the Priority keyword. If it hits, the
target is Flinched.
Ability: Analytic
Static
Effect: Whenever the user targets uses a damaging Move
on a Pokémon or Trainer that has acted before it during
Initiative this Round, that Move deals an additional +5
Damage.
Ability: Anger Point
At-Will ­ Free Action
Effect: When the Pokémon receives a Critical Hit, they
become Enraged and gain +6 Attack Combat Stages.
Ability: Anticipation
At-Will ­ Swift Action
Target: Pokémon or Trainers
Effect: The target reveals if they have any Moves that are
Super-Effective against the Pokémon with Anticipation.
You may not target a Pokémon or Trainer more than
once per encounter with Anticipation. Anticipation
only reveals whether the opponent does or does not
have those moves, not the specific moves themselves.
Ability: Aqua Boost
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: An adjacent Ally uses a damaging Water-Type
Move
Effect: The allied target gains a +5 Bonus to its damage
roll with the triggering Move. A target may not benefit
from more than one instance of Aqua Boost at a time.
Ability: Arena Trap
Scene ­ Free Action
Target: Pokémon or Trainers
Effect: Once Arena Trap is activated, all foes within 5
meters of the user are considered Slowed. This does not
affect targets of the Flying Type, or with a Levitate, Sky,
or Burrow Speed of 4 or higher. The user may end the
effect as a Free Action, and the effect ends if the user is
Fainted or returned to a Poké Ball.
Ability: Aroma Veil
Static
Effect: The user and all Pokémon and Trainers within
3 meters cannot be Confused, Enraged, or Suppressed.
Defensive.
Ability: Aura Break
Static
Effect: Foes may not benefit from Abilities that increase
the Combat Stages or the damage dealt by themselves
or their allies.
Indices and Reference
312
Ability: Aura Storm
Static
Effect: For each injury the user has, they gain a +3
Damage bonus to all Moves with the Aura keyword.
Additionally, while the user is at or under ½ of their
Max Hit Points, they gain a +3 Damage Bonus to all
Moves with the Aura Keyword.
Ability: Bad Dreams
Static
Effect: At the beginning of the user's turn, all Sleeping
Pokémon or Trainers in a Burst 5 lose a Tick of Hit
Points.
Ability: Battle Armor
Static
Effect: The user is immune to Critical Hits; they are
instead normal hits. Defensive.
Ability: Beam Cannon
Static
Effect: The Effect Range and Critical Hit Range of the
user's Ranged, 1-Target Moves are increased by 3.
Ability: Beautiful
Scene ­ Swift Action
Effect: The user may activate Beautiful to either gain +2
Beauty Dice in a Contest, or to cure any adjacent targets
of the Enraged Condition.
Ability: Berry Storage
Daily ­ Extended Action
Trigger: The user eats a Berry
Effect: The user gains 3 instances of the Berry's
Digestion Buff instead of 1. It may only trade in one
of these Digestion Buffs each Scene. Neither storing
nor trading in these Digestion Buffs counts against the
user's normal limits. All Digestion Buffs gained from
Berry Storage are lost after an Extended Rest.
Ability: Big Pecks
Static
Effect: The user cannot have its Defense Stat lowered.
The user cannot have its Defense Combat Stages
lowered. Defensive.
Ability: Big Swallow
Static
Effect: Connection - Stockpile. Whenever the user uses
Swallow or Spit Up, it may treat the Stockpile Count
as if it was one higher. This Ability has no effect if the
Stockpile Counter is already 3.
Ability: Blaze
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Fire.
Ability: Blessed Touch
Daily x2 ­ Standard Action
Effect: An adjacent Pokémon or Trainer gains Hit Points
equal to 1/4th of its maximum Hit Points.
Ability: Blow Away
Static
Effect: Connection - Whirlwind. When the user uses
Whirlwind, all targets hit lose a Tick of Hit Points.
Ability: Blur
Static
Effect: Attacks and Moves targeting you that don't
require an Accuracy Check now require one, as though
they had an Accuracy Check of 2. You may only apply
half of your Evasion to these Attacks and Moves.
Defensive.
Ability: Bodyguard
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: A cardinally adjacent Ally is hit by an attack
Effect: The user and the target switch places, and the
user becomes the target of the attack instead, taking
damage from the attack as if resisted one step further.
If switching places would not move the triggering Ally
out of the area-of-effect of a Burst, Blast, Cone, or Line,
this Ability does not prevent the ally from being hit.
Defensive.
Ability: Bone Lord
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user hits with Bone Club, Bonemerang, or
Bone Rush
Effect: Connection ­ Bonemerang. This Ability may be
activated when hitting with Bone Club to automatically
Flinch its target; or to use Bonemerang as a Priority
Move; or when hitting with Bone Rush to cause the
attack to automatically hit 5 times.
Indices and Reference
313
Ability: Bone Wielder
Static
Effect: This ability is only functional if the user is holding
a Thick Club item. The user gains a +1 Accuracy Bonus to
Bone Club, Bonemerang, and Bone Rush. Additionally,
the user cannot be disarmed, or have their Thick Club
forcefully removed by Trick, Switcheroo, Thief, or any
other Moves or effects unless the user wishes it.
Ability: Brimstone
Static
Effect: Whenever the user causes a Burn with a
damaging Fire-Type Attack, the target is also Poisoned.
Ability: Bulletproof
Static
Effect: The user resists all X target ranged attacks one
step further. This refers to attacks and Moves that
simply hit one target or specify hitting multiple targets,
such as Razor Wind hitting three targets. It has no
effect on Moves that are capable of hitting multiple
targets through areas of effect, such as Bursts or Cones.
Defensive.
Ability: Bully
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user hits a target for Super-Effective
Damage with a Melee Move
Effect: The target of the attack is pushed 2 Meters,
becomes Tripped, and gains an Injury.
Ability: Cave Crasher
Static
Effect: The user resists Ground-Type and Rock-Type
attacks one step further. Defensive.
Ability: Celebrate
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user causes a foe to Faint by using a
damaging attack
Effect: The user increases their Speed by 1 Combat Stage
and may immediately take an additional Shift Action to
move as if they were Slowed. This Ability may only be
activated if the user is not prevented from shifting.
Ability: Cherry Power
Daily ­ Swift Action
Effect: The user gains 15 Temporary Hit Points, and is
cured of all Persistent Status Afflictions.
Ability: Chlorophyll
Static
Effect: While in Sunny Weather, the user gains +4 Speed
Combat Stages.
Ability: Clay Cannons
At-Will ­ Swift Action
Effect: Until the end of the round, the user may originate
any Ranged Move they use from any square adjacent to
itself.
Ability: Clear Body
Static
Effect: The user's Combat Stages may not be lowered by
the effect of foes' Feautres, Abilities, or Moves. Status
Affictions may still alter their Combat Stages. Defensive.
Ability: Cloud Nine
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: The weather of the field is set to normal.
Ability: Cluster Mind
Static
Effect: The user's Move Pool limit is increased by +2.
Ability: Color Change
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Move
Effect: The user's Type changes to match the Type of the
triggering Move.
Ability: Color Theory
Static
Effect: Upon gaining this ability at Birth, the user rolls
1d12 to determine the color of their tail secretions.
1 = Red; 2 = Red-Orange; 3 = Orange; 4 = Yellow-
Orange; 5 = Yellow; 6 = Yellow-Green; 7 = Green; 8 =
Blue-Green; 9 = Blue; 10 = Blue-Violet; 11 = Violet; 12
= Red-Violet.
Red is tied to Attack, Orange is tied to Defense, Yellow is
tied to Special Attack, Green is tied to Special Defense,
Blue is tied to Speed, Violet is tied to HP. Users with a
"Pure" Color (Red, Orange, Yellow, etc) gain a +6 Bonus
to the Base Stat tied to their color. Users with a "Mixed"
Color (Red-Orange, Yellow-Orange, etc) gain a +3
Bonus to each Stat tied to the color.
Indices and Reference
314
Ability: Competitive
Static
Effect: Whenever the user has its Combat Stages
lowered, by something other than its own Moves or
Abilities, the user's Special Attack is raised 2 Combat
Stages.
Ability: Compound Eyes
Static
Effect: The user gains a +3 Bonus to all Accuracy Rolls.
Ability: Confidence
Scene ­ Standard Action
Effect: Choose a Combat Stat. All allies within 5 meters
of the user gain +1 CS in the Chosen Stat.
Ability: Contrary
Static
Effect: If something would raise the user's Combat
Stages, it instead lowers the user's Combat Stages by
the same amount. If something would lower the user's
Combat Stages, it instead raises the user's Combat Stages
by the same amount.
Ability: Conqueror
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user causes a foe to Faint by using a
damaging Physical or Special Attack
Effect: The user's Attack, Special Attack, and Speed gain
+1 Combat Stage.
Ability: Copy Master
Static
Effect: Connection - Copycat. Whenever the user uses
Copycat or Mimic, it gains +1 Combat Stage in a Stat of
its choice after the Move is resolved.
Ability: Corrosive Toxins
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: Connection - Toxic. The user may activate this
Ability when using Toxic to allow the Move to ignore
Immunity to the Status Affliction, Blessings, and the
effects of Abilities that may prevent Hit Point loss from
being Badly Poisoned (such as Magic Guard or Poison
Heal).
Ability: Courage
Static
Effect: While at or under 1/3rd of its Max Hit Point
value, the user gains a +5 Damage Bonus to all Damage
Rolls, and 5 Damage Reduction. Defensive.
Ability: Covert
Static
Effect: If this Pokémon is standing on a terrain related to
its natural habitat, its Evasion is increased by +2. For Ice
types, this is generally snowy or icy terrain; Ground and
Ground types are apt to feel at home in sandy terrain or
craggy rocks; Grass types, Bug Types, and others likely
feel at home in long grass. Some Pokémon may be at
home in several types of terrain.
Ability: Cruelty
Scene ­ Swift Action
Trigger: The user hits a foe with a damaging attack
Effect: After Damage is Resolved, the foe gains an
Injury. The user is then informed of the total number
of Injuries currently on the target, and may use that
number to "purchase" the effects listed below.
»
» 1 Injury: The target loses 2 Hit Points. May be "pur-
chased" multiple times.
»
» 1 Injury: The target is Slowed.
»
» 2 Injuries: Until the end of the encounter, the target
may not gain Hit Points or Temporary Hit Points
from any source. This effect ends if the target is
switched out or Takes a Breather.
Ability: Crush Trap
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user successfully Grapples a target
Effect: Connection ­ Wrap. When you activate this
ability, the user may immediately deal damage to the
target as if the user had hit with a Struggle Attack. There
is no Accuracy Roll and thus this damage cannot miss,
be a Critical Hit, or trigger any Effect Ranges.
Ability: Cursed Body
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Damaging Move.
Effect: The Move becomes Disabled.
Ability: Cute Charm
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: A foe of the opposite gender attacks the user
with a Melee Attack
Effect: The foe becomes Infatuated.
Ability: Cute Tears
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Damaging Attack
Effect: The attacking foe loses 2 Combat Stages in the
Attack Stat used by the triggering Move.
Indices and Reference
315
Ability: Damp
Static
Effect: The Moves Self-Destruct and Explosion may not
be used when a Pokémon with Damp is within 10-meters
of Self-Destruct or Explosion's user. The Ability
Aftermath may not be activated when a Pokémon with
Damp is within 10-meters of the Pokémon attempting
to activate Aftermath.
Ability: Danger Syrup
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: Connection - Sweet Scent. If the user is hit by
a damaging attack, it may use Sweet Scent as a Free
Action, frequency allowing.
Ability: Dark Art
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Dark.
Ability: Dark Aura
Static
Effect: The user and all allies have the Damage Base of
their damaging Dark Type Attacks increased by +1.
Ability: Daze
Scene ­ Standard Action
Effect: Make an AC4 Status Attack against a target
within 6 meters. If you hit, the target falls asleep.
Ability: Deadly Poison
Daily ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user Poisons a target
Effect: The target is Badly Poisoned instead.
Ability: Decoy
Scene ­ Full Action
Effect: The user uses the Move "Follow Me" as if it was
on their Move List, and their Evasion is raised by +2
until the end of their next turn.
Ability: Deep Sleep
Static
Effect: When asleep, this Pokémon restores a Tick of
Hit Points at the end of each turn.
Ability: Defeatist
Static
Effect: Whenever the user is brought below 50% of their
max Hit Points, the user's Attack and Special Attack are
lowered by 1 Combat Stage each, and the user's Speed
is increased by +2 Combat Stages. If the user is healed
above 50% max Hit Points, these changes are reverted.
Ability: Defiant
Static
Effect: Whenever the user has its Combat Stages
lowered, by something other than its own Moves or
Abilities, the user's Attack is raised 2 Combat Stages.
Ability: Defy Death
Daily ­ Swift Action
Effect: By activating this Ability, the user is instantly
healed of up to 2 Injuries; these counts towards the
total number of Injuries that can be healed each day.
Additionally, to die, the user must reach -250% Hit
Points instead of -200% Hit Points.
Ability: Delayed Reaction
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a direct damaging attack
Effect: Halve the damage taken by the user. At the end
of the user's next turn, the user loses Hit Points equal
to the other half of the damage. For example, if the user
is hit for 11 damage and triggers this Ability, the user
would take 5 damage upon being hit and 6 damage at
the end of its next turn. Defensive.
Ability: Delivery Bird
Static
Effect: The user may hold two Held Items at once.
Whenever an Ability or Move affects the user's Held
Items, you may choose which one is affected.
Ability: Desert Weather
Static
Effect: The user is immune to Sandstorm Damage,
resists Fire-Type Moves in Sunny Weather, and regains
1/16th of its Max Hit Points at the end of each of its
turns while in Rainy Weather.
Ability: Diamond Defense
Static
Effect: Connection - Stealth Rock. Stealth Rock's
Frequency is Scene x2, and the user's Stealth Rocks can
be treated as dealing Rock-Type or Fairy-Type Damage,
whichever is more effective.
Indices and Reference
316
Ability: Dig Away
Daily ­ Free Action
Effect: Connection - Dig. When hit by a Move, this
Pokémon may activate this Feature to use Dig, frequency
allowing, as an interrupt to avoid the attack and shift
underground immediately. This consumes a command
as normal. The terrain must allow for Dig to be used.
Ability: Discipline
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: If the user gains initiative and is Confused,
Enraged, Infatuated, or Flinched, they may activate
Discipline to cure themselves of any of these conditions.
Ability: Dire Spore
Static
Effect: Connection - Spore. Whenever the user hits a
target with Spore, that target is also Poisoned.
Ability: Dodge
Daily ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Damaging Move
Effect: The triggering Move instead misses. Defensive.
Ability: Download
Scene ­ Free Action
Target: Trainer or Pokémon
Effect: The target must reveal whether its Defense or
Special Defense Stats are lower. If the Defense Stat is
lower, the user gains a +5 Damage Bonus with Physical
Moves when attacking the target. If the Special Defense
Stat is lower, the Damage Bonus is instead to Special
Moves.
Ability: Dreamspinner
Daily ­ Standard Action
Effect: For each Sleeping Pokémon or Trainer within 10
meters, the user gains a Tick of Hit Points.
Ability: Drizzle
Scene ­ Swift Action
Effect: The Weather changes to be Rainy for 5 rounds.
Ability: Drown Out
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: A foe uses a Move with the Sonic keyword
Effect: The user makes a Focus Check with a DC equal
to the Move's Accuracy Roll. If the user succeeds, the
triggering Move fails.
Ability: Drought
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: The Weather changes to be Sunny for 5 rounds.
Ability: Dry Skin
Static
Effect: Whenever the user is hit by a damaging Fire-
Type Move or ends their turn in Sunny Weather, they
lose a Tick of Hit Points. The user is immune to the
damage and effects of Water-Type Moves, and whenever
the user is hit by a damaging Water-Type Move or ends
their turn in Rainy Weather, they gain a Tick of Hit
Points.
Ability: Dust Cloud
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: Connection - Poison Powder. Whenever the
user uses Poison Powder, Sleep Powder, or Stun Spore,
the user may activate this Ability to use if it as if that
move have a range of Burst 1 instead.
Ability: Early Bird
Static
Effect: The user gains a +3 Bonus to rolls made due to
Status Afflictions.
Ability: Effect Spore
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Melee Attack
Effect: Roll 1d6. On a result of 1 or 2, the attacker is
Poisoned. On a result of 3 or 4, the attacker is Paralyzed.
On a result of 5 or 6, the attacker falls Asleep.
Ability: Enfeebling Lips
Static
Effect: Connection - Lovely Kiss. Whenever the user
uses the Move Lovely Kiss, they may choose a Stat. If the
Move successfully hits, the Pokémon or Trainer being
targeted loses 2 Combat Stages in that Stat.
Ability: Electrodash
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: The user may make a Sprint Action as a Swift
Action.
Ability: Enduring Rage
Static
Effect: The user may not make rolls to cure themselves
from the Enraged condition. However, while Enraged,
the user gains 5 Damage Reduction.
Indices and Reference
317
Ability: Exploit
Static
Effect: Whenever you deal Super-Effective Damage to
a target, that target treats your Damage Roll as it were
increased by +5.
Ability List: F­K
Ability: Fabulous Trim
Static
Effect: Furfrou's Ability depends on its current hairstyle.
A Furfrou's hairstyle can be changed as an Extended
Action at an appropriate hair parlor.
Star Trim: Celebrate
Diamond Trim: Defiant
Heart Trim: Cute Tears
Pharaoh Trim: Sand Veil
Kabuki Trim: Inner Focus
La Reine Trim: Intimidate
Matron Trim: Friend Guard
Dandy Trim: Moxie
Debutante Trim: Confidence
Ability: Fade Away
Scene ­ Standard Action, Interrupt
Effect: The user becomes Invisible until the beginning of
their next turn, and may immediately Shift. This Ability
may be activated as an Interrupt when hit by a Physical
attack; the user may declare the use of Fade Away to
avoid all damage and/or effects of the move. Defensive.
Ability: Fairy Aura
Static
Effect: The user and all allies have the Damage Base of
their damaging Fairy Type Attacks increased by +1.
Ability: Fashion Designer
Daily ­ Extended Action
Effect: The user knows how to make useful accessories
from mere common leaves. The user may craft one of
the consumable Held Items below by activating this
ability.
Lucky Leaf - Grass Type Booster for one encounter.
Tasty Reeds - Bug Type Booster for one encounter.
Dew Cup - Same Effect as an Occa Berry.
Thorn Mantle - Same Effect as a Coba Berry.
Chewy Cluster - Same Effect as Leftovers.
Decorative Twine ­ Roll +2d6 on any Move during a
Contest.
Ability: Fiery Crash
Static
Effect: Whenever the user uses a Move with the Dash
keyword, they may either increase that Move's Damage
Base by +2, or change the Move to be Fire-Type if it
was not already. All Moves with the Dash keyword
performed as Fire-Typed burn their target on 19+, or
increase the effect range by +2 if they could already
inflict Burn.
Ability: Filter
Static
Effect: When the user is hit by a Super-Effective attack,
the attack deals x1.25 damage instead of x1.5 damage.
If the user is hit by a Super-Super-Effective attack, the
attack deals x1.5 damage instead of x2 damage. . If you
have both Solid Rock and Filter, you gain 5 Damage
Reduction against Super-Effective Damage. Defensive.
Ability: Flame Body
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Melee Attack
Effect: The attacking foe becomes Burned.
Ability: Flame Tongue
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user hits a foe with Lick.
Effect: Connection ­ Lick. The foe hit with Lick gains
an Injury and becomes Burned.
Ability: Flare Boost
Static
Effect: While Burned, the user's Special Attack is raised
by 2 Combat Stages. If the user is cured of its Burn, its
Special Attack is lowered by 2 Combat Stages.
Ability: Flash Fire
Static
Effect: The user is immune to the damage and effects of
Fire-Type attacks. If the user is hit by a Fire-Type attack,
the user gains a +5 Bonus to their next Damage Roll
with a Fire-Type Move. Defensive.
Ability: Fluffy Charge
Static
Effect: Connection ­ Charge. Whenever the user uses
Charge, they gain +1 CS to Defense.
Indices and Reference
318
Ability: Flower Gift
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: If it is Sunny, Flower Gift creates a 4-meter
Burst. The user and all of their allies in the burst gain
+2 Combat Stages, distributed among any Stat or Stats
as they wish.
Ability: Flower Power
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: A Grass-Type Pokémon
Effect: The target gains Flower Power for the rest of
the day. While the target has Flower Power, they gain
a +1 bonus to Skill Checks. A Pokémon with Flower
Power may choose to expend their Flower Power when
making an Accuracy Roll with a Grass-Type Move or
when making a Save Check to gain a +2 Bonus to that
roll. This Ability may target a specific target only once
per day.
Ability: Flower Veil
Static
Effect: Allied Grass-Type Pokémon within 10 meters
cannot have Combat Stages lowered. Defensive.
Ability: Flutter
At-Will ­ Shift Action
Effect: The user gains +3 Evasion until the end of their
next turn, and cannot be Flanked.
Ability: Flying Fly Trap
Static
Effect: The Pokémon takes no damage from Ground
Type Moves and Bug Type Moves. Defensive.
Ability: Focus
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Fighting.
Ability: Forecast
Static
Effect: The user's Type changes depending on the
weather. It changes to Fire Type if it is Sunny, Ice Type if
it is Hailing, Water Type if it is Rainy, and Rock Type if
there is a Sandstorm. It returns to Normal Type if it is in
normal weather or foggy weather. If there are multiple
Weather Effects on the field, choose one type for the
user to be that corresponds with an existing Weather
Effect.
Ability: Forest Lord
Scene x2 ­ Shift Action
Effect: This turn, the user may originate a Grass or
Ghost-Typed Move from any fully grown tree within 10
meters. Moves performed this way gain a +2 Bonus on
their Accuracy Roll.
Ability: Forewarn
Scene ­ Free Action
Target: A Pokémon or Trainer
Effect: The Move with the highest Damage Dice Roll
known by the targeted foe is revealed. If there is a tie,
all tied Moves are revealed. The Moves revealed gain a
-2 Penalty during Accuracy Checks when used by the
target for the rest of the encounter.
Ability: Fox Fire
Scene ­ Standard Action
Effect: The user creates 3 Fire Wisps. Whenever the user
is targeted by a foe within 6 meters, they may spend a
Fire Wisp as an Interrupt to use the Move Ember against
that foe as a Free Action, as if it was on their Move List.
Ability: Freezing Point
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Ice.
Ability: Friend Guard
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: An adjacent Ally takes Damage
Effect: The damage is resisted one step further.
Defensive.
Ability: Frighten
Scene ­ Swift Action
Target: A Pokémon or Trainer within 5 meters
Effect: Lower the target's Speed 2 Combat Stages.
Ability: Frisk
Scene ­ Free Action
Target: An Adjacent Pokémon
Effect: The target reveals their Type, Ability, Nature,
Level, and name of any Held Items they are currently
holding, if any.
Indices and Reference
319
Ability: Frostbite
Static
Effect: The user's damaging Ice-Type attacks cause the
target to become Slowed on 18+, and the Effect Range
for Freeze on these Moves is increased by +1. If the
Move does not cause Freezing, it now causes Freezing
on a roll of 20.
Ability: Fur Coat
Static
Effect: The user resists all Physical Attacks one step
further. Defensive.
Ability: Gale Wings
Static
Effect: The user may use Flying-Type Moves as if they
have the Priority keyword.
Ability: Gardener
Daily x3 ­ Extended Action
Target: A yielding plant
Effect: Increase the soil quality of the plant by +1, as if
Mulch had been applied. This may target a specific Plant
only once per day.
Ability: Gentle Vibe
Scene ­ Standard Action
Range: Burst 2
Effect: All targets in the burst, including the user, have
their Combat Stages reset, and are cured of any Volatile
Status ailments.
Ability: Gluttony
Static
Effect: The user may eat up to three Food Items per
encounter, and up to two refreshments per half hour.
Ability: Gooey
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Melee Attack
Effect: The triggering attacker has their Speed lowered
by 1 Combat Stage.
Ability: Gore
Static
Effect: Connection - Horn Attack. Whenever the user
uses Horn Attack, they may push the target away 1
meter. Additionally, Horn Attack has a Critical Range
of 18-20 for the user.
Ability: Grass Pelt
Static
Effect: When standing on any grassy or leafy terrain
that is either Slow or Rough Terrain, the user gains +5
Damage Reduction. Defensive.
Ability: Gulp
Daily ­ Extended Action
Effect: If the user is allowed to spend time fully
submerged in water for at least 10 minutes, they may
heal up to 25% of their Max Hit Points, and remove one
Injury.
Ability: Guts
Static
Effect: While suffering from Burn, Poison, Paralysis,
Freezing, or while Asleep, the user's Attack is raised
2 Combat Stages. If suffering from none of these
conditions, the user loses any Combat Stages gained
this way.
Ability: Harvest
At-Will ­ Free Action
Effect: Whenever the user trades in a Digestion Buff
from a Berry, flip a coin. On heads, the user gains all the
benefits of the Digestion Buff, but the Buff is not used
up. On tails, the Buff is consumed normally. While in
Sunny Weather, the Buff is never consumed. The user
may trade in a Digestion Buff up to once per turn during
an encounter, but only until they flip "Tails".
Ability: Haunt
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Ghost.
Ability: Hay Fever
At-Will ­ Swift Action
Trigger: The user uses a Status Move; or the user ends
their turn while Asleep.
Effect: The user creates a Burst 2 or Close Blast 3 of
allergenic pollen. All Trainers and Pokémon in the
burst that are not Bug, Grass, or Poison Typed lose a
Tick of Hit Points. This Ability cannot be activated in
Rainy Weather, Sandstorms, or if it is Hailing.
Ability: Healer
Scene ­ Free Action
Target: An Adjacent Pokémon or Trainer
Effect: The target is cured of all Status conditions.
Indices and Reference
320
Ability: Heat Mirage
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user uses a Fire-Type Move
Effect: The user's Evasion is increased by +3 until the
beginning of their next turn.
Ability: Heatproof
Static
Effect: The user resists Fire Type moves one step further
(Super-Effective Becomes Neutral, Doubly-Super
Effective becomes Super-Effective, Neutral becomes
Resistant, Resistant becomes doubly Resistant).
Ability: Heavy Metal
Static
Effect: When referring to Weight Classes, treat the
Pokémon as if it is 2 Weight Classes higher.
Ability: Helper
Static
Effect: Connection - Helping Hand. Whenever the user
uses a Move that targets a single Ally, that Ally gains a
+1 Bonus to Accuracy and Skill Checks until the end of
the user's next turn.
Ability: Honey Paws
Static
Effect: The user may consume Honey to gain a Digestion
Buff as if they had consumed Leftovers. This Digestion
Buff does not count against their normal limit.
Ability: Honey Thief
Static
Effect: Connection - Bug Bite. If the user uses Bug Bite
to steal the effects of a Digestion Buff, they gain a Tick
of Temporary Hit Points.
Ability: Huge Power
Static
Effect: The Pokémon's Base Attack stat is doubled. This
may double any bonuses from Nature or Vitamins, but
not bonuses from Trainer Features.
Ability: Hustle
Static
Effect: The user receives a -2 penalty to all Accuracy
Rolls with Physical Attacks, and gains a +10 Bonus to
all Physical Damage Rolls.
Ability: Hydration
Static
Effect: At the end of the user's turn, if the weather is
Rainy, the user is cured of one Status Affliction.
Ability: Hyper Cutter
Static
Effect: The user's Attack Stat may not be lowered, and its
Attack Combat Stages may not be lowered. Defensive.
Ability: Hypnotic
Static
Effect: Connection - Hypnosis. When used by the user,
Hypnosis cannot miss.
Ability: Ice Body
Static
Effect: While Hailing, the user gains a Tick of Hit Points
at the beginning of each of their turns. The user is not
damaged by Hail.
Ability: Ice Shield
Scene ­ Standard Action, Interrupt
Effect: The user places up to 3 segments of Ice Wall; each
segment must be continuous with another segment,
and at least one must be adjacent to the user. These
Ice Walls count as Blocking Terrain and last until the
end of the encounter or until they are destroyed. Each
Ice Wall segment is 2 meters tall, 1 meter wide, and 2
centimeters thick. Each segment has 10 Hit Points, 5
Damage Reduction, and takes damage as if it was Ice-
Type.
Ability: Ignition Boost
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: An adjacent Ally uses a damaging Fire-Type
Move
Effect: The allied target gains a +5 Bonus to its damage
roll with the triggering Move. A target may not benefit
from more than one instance of Ignition Boost at a time.
Ability: Illuminate
Static
Effect: Attacks that target the user have a -2 Accuracy
Penalty against the user. Does not affect attackers with
the Blindsense Capability. Defensive.
Indices and Reference
321
Ability: Illusion
Special
Effect: As a Standard Action, the user may mark an
object, Pokémon, or Trainer. The user may have a
number of targets marked equal to their Focus Rank; to
mark a new target, an old mark must be forfeited. Once
per round as a Free Action, the user may use illusory
powers to make itself look exactly like a marked target.
This may be done as the user is being released from a
Poké Ball. This change is aesthetic and does not affect
typing or Moves. The illusion allows the user to vaguely
mimic sounds made by its marked target, but it is not
capable of intelligible speech. Whenever the user is hit
by a damaging Move, the Illusion is destroyed. The user
may also dismiss the Illusion as a Free Action.
Ability: Immunity
Static
Effect: The user cannot be Poisoned or Badly Poisoned.
Defensive.
Ability: Imposter
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: Ditto enters the encounter
Effect: When Ditto is sent out, it may use the Move
Transform as a free action. If the target of Transform
has any modified Combat Stages, apply these Combat
Stages to Ditto. One of the target's Abilities is randomly
assigned to Ditto until Ditto uses Transform again.
Ability: Infiltrator
Static
Effect: The user gains a +2 Bonus to Stealth Checks,
does not trigger Hazards, Blessings cannot be activated
in response to its actions, and the user may bypass the
effects of the move Substitute.
Ability: Inner Focus
Static
Effect: The user cannot be Flinched. If an effect would
set the user's Initiative to 0, their Initiative is not affected.
Defensive.
Ability: Insomnia
Static
Effect: The user is immune to the Sleep condition, and
cannot use the move Rest. Defensive.
Ability: Instinct
Static
Effect: The user's default Evasion is increased by
+2.Defensive.
Ability: Interference
At-Will - Standard Action
Effect: The accuracy of all foes within 3 meters is
reduced by -2 until the end of the user's next turn.
Ability: Intimidate
Scene ­ Swift Action
Target: Pokémon or Trainer within 5 meters
Effect: Lower the target's Attack 1 Combat Stage.
Ability: Iron Barbs
At-Will - Free Action, Reaction
Trigger: The user is hit by a damaging Melee Attack
Effect: The attacker loses Hit Points equal to Tick of Hit
Points.
Ability: Iron Fist
Static
Effect: The user increases the Damage Base of the
following Moves by +2; Bullet Punch, Comet Punch,
Dizzy Punch, Drain Punch, Dynamic Punch, Fire
Punch, Meteor Mash, Shadow Punch, Ice Punch, Mach
Punch, Mega Punch, Sky Uppercut, Thunder Punch,
Focus Punch, Hammer Arm, and Power-Up Punch.
Ability: Justified
At-Will - Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a damaging Dark Type Move
Effect: The user may raise its Attack 1 Combat Stage.
The user always gains a +4 bonus to Skill Checks made
to Intercept.
Ability: Kampfgeist
Static
Effect: The user gains STAB on Fighting-Type Moves.
Ability: Keen Eye
Static
Effect: The user's Accuracy cannot be lowered, their
attacks cannot have Accuracy Penalties (such as from
Illuminate), the user is immune to the Blind condition
(but not Total Blindness), and the user ignores any
Evasion not directly derived from Stats (such as from
the Instinct Ability, or from moves like Minimize).
Indices and Reference
322
Ability: Klutz
Static
Effect: The Pokémon ignores the effects of all held Items
in its possession. The user may drop Held Items At-Will
as a Free Action during their turn, even if they have
Status Afflictions that prevent them from taking actions.
Ability List: L­P
Ability: Landslide
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Ground.
Ability: Last Chance
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Normal.
Ability: Leaf Gift
Daily ­ Extended Action
Effect: The user is adept at crafting clothes for itself out
of common leaves. As an extended action, the user may
craft a Leaf Suit listed below by activating this Ability;
each suit has different effects on the user. The user may
only wear one Leaf Suit at a time; building a new suit
destroys previous suits.
Nourishing Suit - Effect: Grants the Sun Blanket and
Leaf Guard Abilities.
Heavy Suit - Effect: Grants the Sturdy and Overcoat
Abilities.
Vibrant Suit - Effect: Grants the Chlorophyll and
Photosynthesis Abilities.
Ability: Leaf Guard
Static
Effect: At the end of the user's turn, if the weather is
Sunny, the user is cured of one Status Condition.
Ability: Leek Mastery
Static
Effect: Connection - Acrobatics. If the user is holding a
Rare Leek, they may still use Acrobatics as if they were
not holding an item. The user cannot be disarmed of
their Stick, nor can be it be forcefully removed by Trick,
Switcheroo, Thief, or any other Moves or effects unless
the user wishes it.
Ability: Levitate
Static
Effect: The Pokémon is immune to the damage and
effects of Ground Type Moves, and gains a Levitate
Speed of 4, or has existing Levitate Speeds increased by
+2. Defensive.
Ability: Life Force
Daily ­ Swift Action
Effect: The user gains a Tick of Hit Points immediately
upon activating this Ability, and gains the same amount
at the beginning of each of their turns for the following
4 rounds.
Ability: Light Metal
Static
Effect: When referring to Weight Classes, treat the
Pokémon as if it is 2 Weight Classes lower.
Ability: Lightning Kicks
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: The user may activate this Ability to use any
Move with "Kick" in the name as a Priority Move.
Ability: Lightning Rod
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: A ranged Electric Type Move is used within 10
Meters of the user.
Effect: The Move is turned into a Single-Target Move and
is re-directed at the user without fail, and cannot miss.
This negates Lock-On or Mind Reader. Additionally,
the user is immune to the damage and effects of Electric
Type attacks, and each time they are hit by an Electric
attack, the user's Special Attack is raised 1 Combat
Stage. Defensive.
Ability: Limber
Static
Effect: The user is immune to Paralysis. Defensive.
Ability: Liquid Ooze
Static
Effect: When the Pokémon with Liquid Ooze is damaged
by Absorb, Drain Punch, Giga Drain, Horn Leech,
Leech Life, Leech Seed or Mega Drain, that Move gains
Recoil ½ and the Move's user does not gain any HP.
Indices and Reference
323
Ability: Lullaby
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: Connection - Sing. Whenever the user uses the
Move "Sing", they may activate this Feature. The user
then picks a Pokémon or Trainer being targeted by Sing;
Sing automatically hits that target.
Ability: Lunchbox
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user trades in a Digestion Buff
Effect: The user gains 5 Temporary Hit Points. These
Temporary Hit Points stack with any Temporary Hit
Points granted by the triggering Buff.
Ability: Mach Speed
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Flying.
Ability: Magic Bounce
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Status Move
Effect: The user may reflect the Move back to the attacker.
This Ability may be used to change the placement and
affiliation of any Hazards being set within 10 meters of
the user as well. Defensive.
Ability: Magic Guard
Static
Effect: The user is immune to damage and Hit Point loss
from Hazards, Weather, Status Afflictions, Vortexes,
Recoil, Hay Fever, Iron Barbs, Rough Skin, and Leech
Seed. Defensive.
Ability: Magician
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user hits a foe with a damaging Single-
Target attack
Effect: The user takes the target's Held Item. This Ability
may not be triggered if the user is already holding a
Held Item.
Ability: Magma Armor
Static
Effect: The user cannot be Frozen. Defensive.
Ability: Magnet Pull
At-Will ­ Swift Action
Target: A Steel-Type Pokémon
Effect: Until the end of the user's next turn, the target
may not move more then 8-meters away from the user
and/or may not move closer than 3-meters to the user.
Ability: Marvel Scale
Static
Effect: When Asleep, Paralyzed, Burned, Frozen or
Poisoned, Marvel Scale raises the user's Defense by +2
Combat Stages. The Combat Stages return to normal if
the user is cured of their status affliction.
Ability: Mega Launcher
Static
Effect: The user increases the Damage Base of Aura
Sphere, Dark Pulse, Dragon Pulse, and Water Pulse by
+2.
Ability: Memory Wipe
Scene - Special
Effect: The user selects a Pokémon or Trainer within
10 meters. If used as a Swift Action, the last Move used
by the target becomes Disabled. If used as a Standard
Action, the target is Flinched. If used as an Extended
Action that takes about 1 minute, it can erase up to 5
minutes that have occurred within the last 30 minutes
from the target's memory.
Ability: Migraine
Static
Effect: While the user is at 50% Hit Points or less, it
gains the Telekinetic Capability and may add STAB to
Psychic-Type Moves.
Ability: Mimitree
Static
Effect: Connection - Mimic. Whenever the user uses a
Move copied by Mimic, they may choose to replace that
Move with Mimic once more. When used this way, the
user ignores Mimic's Frequency.
Ability: Mind Mold
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Psychic.
Indices and Reference
324
Ability: Mini-Noses
Daily - Standard Action
Effect: The user detaches up to three Mini-Noses from
themselves and places them adjacent to them on the
battlefield. These Mini-Noses have HP equal to the user's
level but otherwise uses their user's stats. Each Mini-
Nose has a Levitate Speed of 4. The user may Shift them
each round on their turn, and they may originate any
Ranged Move from one of the Mini-Noses instead of
themselves if they choose. If a Mini-Nose is reduced to
0 HP, it is destroyed and takes a full 24 hours to regrow,
one at a time. If the user has less than three grown Mini-
Noses, then this ability can only place as many on the
field as are available. All Mini-Noses deactivate, but are
not destroyed, if the user is Fainted. Mini-Noses cannot
be made to Shift more than 5 meters away from the user;
if they are forced farther away, they will automatically
Shift toward the user on the user's turn.
Ability: Minus
Scene ­ Free Action
Target: An ally with Plus within 10 Meters
Effect: The target's Special Attack is raised by +2 Combat
Stages.
Ability: Miracle Mile
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Fairy.
Ability: Mojo
Static
Effect: Normal Types are not immune to the user's
Ghost-Type Moves.
Ability: Mold Breaker
Static
Effect: The user ignores the effect of enemies' Defensive
Abilities.
Ability: Moody
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user joins an encounter, misses with a
Move, or hurts itself in Confusion
Effect: Moody must be activated whenever it is triggered.
Roll 1d10 to determine a Stat to be raised by +2 Combat
Stages, then roll 1d10 to determine a Stat to be lowered
by 2 Combat Stages. 1 or 2 is Attack, 3 or 4 is Defense, 5
or 6 is Special Attack, 7 or 8 is Special Defense, 9 or 10
is Speed.
Ability: Motor Drive
Static
Effect: The user is immune to the damage and effects of
Electric Type attacks. Whenever an Electric Type attack
hits the Pokémon, raise their Speed by +1 Combat Stage.
Defensive.
Ability: Mountain Peak
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Rock.
Ability: Moxie
Static
Effect: Whenever the user's Move causes a target to
faint, it may raise its Attack Combat Stage by +1. You
may only trigger Moxie once per Move, even if the
Move causes multiple targets to faint.
Ability: Mud Dweller
Static
Effect: The user resists Ground-Type and Water-Type
attacks one step further.
Ability: Multiscale
Static
Effect: When at full Hit Points, when taking damage
from a Move, half the total damage before applying
weakness and resistance, after applying your Defenses.
Defensive.
Ability: Multitype
At Will ­ Free Action
Effect: The user changes its Elemental Type to any of
the Elemental Types. Multitype cannot be copied or
disabled.
Ability: Mummy
Daily ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Melee Attack
Effect: Replace all of the Attacker's Abilities with
Mummy until the end of the encounter.
Ability: Natural Cure
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: Whenever the user is returned to its Poké Ball or
Takes A Breather, it may activate Natural Cure to cure
itself of all Persistent Status Afflictions.
Indices and Reference
325
Ability: No Guard
Static
Effect: The user may not apply any form of Evasion to
avoiding Melee attacks; however, the user ignores all
forms of evasion when making Melee attack rolls.
Ability: Normalize
Static
Effect: All Moves performed by the Pokémon are
considered Normal Type instead of whatever Type they
normally are.
Ability: Oblivious
Static
Effect: The user is immune to the Enraged and Infatuated
conditions. Defensive.
Ability: Odious Spray
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: Connection - Poison Gas. The user may activate
this Ability when using Poison Gas to cause Poison Gas
to be a single target attack with a range of 8. When used
this way, Poison Gas has an AC of 2, and also flinches its
target if it hits.
Ability: Omen
Scene ­ Swift Action
Effect: Choose a Pokémon or Trainer within 5 meters.
The target's Accuracy is lowered by 2.
Ability: Overcharge
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Electric.
Ability: Overcoat
Static
Effect: The user is immune to Moves with the Powder
Keyword, and does not take damage from any Weather
that would normally cause it to take damage. Defensive.
Ability: Overgrow
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Grass.
Ability: Own Tempo
Static
Effect: The user is immune to Confusion. Defensive.
Ability: Pack Hunt
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: An adjacent foe is damaged by an ally's Melee
Attack
Effect: The user may make a Physical Attack with an AC
of 5 against the triggering foe. If the attack hits, the foe
loses a Tick of Hit Points.
Ability: Parental Bond
Static
Effect: Only Kangaskhan with the Baby Template can
be Mega Evolved and gain this Ability. While they have
this Ability, the Baby gains 10 Damage Reduction, and
will leave its mother's pouch and may be commanded
to take action in battle. Both the Baby Kangaskhan with
this Ability and its Mother may take their turn when the
Mother takes its turn; the Baby will not willingly walk
farther than 10 meters from its mother however. If the
Baby Kangaskhan with this Ability is Fainted, its mother
will become Enraged, and gain 5 Damage Reduction
and +5 to Damage Rolls for the remainder of the Scene.
Ability: Parry
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Melee Attack
Effect: The attack instead misses. Defensive.
Ability: Perception
At-Will ­ Shift Action, Interrupt
Trigger: An ally uses an area-of-effect attack that would
hit you
Effect: You may Shift to remove yourself from the area-
of-effect.
Ability: Permafrost
Static
Effect: The user gains 5 Damage Reduction against
Super-Effective Damage. Additionally, whenever the
user would lose a Tick of Hit Points due to an effect such
as Sandstorm or the Burn Status condition, subtract 5
from the amount of Hit Points lost. Defensive.
Ability: Photosynthesis
Daily ­ Extended Action
Effect: If the user is allowed to bask in normal sunlight
for at least 10 minutes, they may heal up to 25% of their
Max Hit Points, and remove one Injury.
Indices and Reference
326
Ability: Pickpocket
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by an opponent with a Melee
Move
Effect: If the opponent has a Held Item and the user
does not, the user takes the Held Item the opponent is
holding.
Ability: Pickup
Daily ­ Extended Action
Effect: You may use Pickup as an Extended Action that
requires at least 5 minutes. Roll 1d20, consult the Pickup
keyword to figure out what you find!
Ability: Pixilate
At-Will - Free Action
Trigger: The user uses a Normal-Type damaging Move
Effect: The Move is changed to be Fairy-Type.
Ability: Plus
Scene ­ Free Action
Target: An ally with Minus within 10 Meters
Effect: The target's Special Attack is raised by +2 Combat
Stages.
Ability: Poison Heal
Daily ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user becomes Poisoned
Effect: For the rest of the encounter, while Poisoned
or Badly Poisoned, the user gains a Tick of Hit Points
at the beginning of each turn instead of losing any Hit
Points from Poison. At the end of the encounter, the
user is cured of the Poison Status. Additionally, the user
does not have any Combat Stages lowered from being
Poisoned.
Ability: Poison Point
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Melee Move
Effect: The attacking foe is Poisoned.
Ability: Poison Touch
Static
Effect: The Pokémon's Moves which deal damage Poison
Legal Targets on 19+. If a move already has a chance of
Poisoning foes, Poison Touch increases the effect range
by +2.
Ability: Poltergeist
Static
Effect: Rotom gains an Ability and a Move depending on
what Form it has taken. This Move cannot be forgotten
or replaced in any way.
Standard Rotom: Move - Thunder Shock. Ability -
Levitate.
Heat Rotom: Move- Overheat. Ability - Levitate.
Wash Rotom: Move - Hydro Pump. Ability - Aqua
Boost.
Frost Rotom: Move - Blizzard. Ability - Frostbite.
Fan Rotom: Move - Air Slash. Ability - Keen Eye
Mow Rotom: Move - Leaf Storm. Ability - Grass Pelt.
Ability: Polycephaly
Static
Effect: The user may make Struggle Attacks as a Swift
Action. Struggle Attacks made this way are resisted one
step further than they normally would be.
Ability: Prankster
Static
Effect: The user may use Status Moves as Priority
(Advanced).
Ability: Pressure
Static
Effect: While within 3 meters of the user, all foes are
Suppressed. This effect ends when the user is Fainted.
Ability: Pride
Static
Effect: While suffering from Burn, Poison, Paralysis,
Freezing, or while Asleep, the user's Special Attack is
raised 2 Combat Stages. If suffering from none of these
conditions, the user loses any Combat Stages gained
this way.
Ability: Prime Fury
Scene ­ Swift Action
Effect: The user becomes Enraged, and gains +1 Attack
Combat Stage.
Ability: Probability Control
Scene ­ Free Action
Target: Any roll made by yourself or an ally.
Effect: The user may reroll any roll, or have any ally reroll
any roll that has been made. This leaves discoverable
Psychic residue.
Indices and Reference
327
Ability: Protean
At-Will ­ Swift Action
Trigger: The user uses a Move
Effect: The user's Type changes to match the Type of the
triggering Move. This Ability resolves before the Move
is resolved (And thus you may apply STAB, and trigger
other Features and Abilities appropriately).
Ability: Pumpkingrab
Static
Effect: The user gains a +4 bonus to Accuracy Checks
of Struggle Attacks made to initiate Grapple, and a +3
Bonus to Skill Checks made to initiate a Grapple.
Ability: Pure Blooded
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Dragon.
Ability: Pure Power
Static
Effect: The Pokémon's base attack stat is doubled. This
may double any bonuses from Nature or Vitamins, but
not bonuses from Features.
Ability List: Q­U
Ability: Quick Cloak
At-Will ­ Standard Action
Effect: Burmy quickly builds a cloak out of nearby
materials; using leaves and twigs will give it a Grass
Plant Cloak, using sand and rocks will give it a Ground
Sandy Cloak, and using trash or scrap will give it a
Steel Trash Cloak. While in a Cloak, Burmy gains the
Type associated with the Cloak as a secondary Typing,
which will become permanent upon evolution into
Wormadam. Cloaks are destroyed if Burmy is hit for
Super-Effective Damage, or if Burmy makes a new
Cloak.
Ability: Quick Curl
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: Connection - Defense Curl. The user may activate
this Ability to use Defense Curl as a Swift Action.
Ability: Quick Feet
Static
Effect: When Poisoned, Burned, Paralyzed, Frozen or
put to Sleep, the user's Speed is raised 2 Combat Stages.
The user does not lose Speed Combat Stages from
Paralysis. If the user is healed all Status Conditions,
their Speed is lowered appropriately.
Ability: Rain Dish
Static
Effect: While Rainy, the user gains a Tick of Hit Points
at the beginning of each of their turns.
Ability: Rally
Scene ­ Swift Action
Effect: All allies within 10 meters may immediately
shift 1 Meter in any direction they wish. Rally does not
work on sleeping, flinched, stuck, fainted, or otherwise
incapacitated allies. Rally does not work on the user.
Ability: Rattled
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Bug, Dark, or Ghost Type
Move
Effect: The user's Speed is raised by +1 Combat Stage.
Ability: Razor Edge
Static
Effect: Connection - Poison Tail. The user's Critical
Hit Range on all Moves is increased by +2; any Moves
with "Tail" in their name have their Critical Hit Range
increased by +3 instead.
Ability: Reckless
Static
Effect: Increases the Damage Base of Jump Kick, Hi
Jump Kick, and Moves with the Recoil keyword by +2.
Ability: Refreshing Veil
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: Connection ­ Aqua Ring. Whenever the user
activates Aqua Ring, they may activate this Feature to
cure themselves of all Persistent Status Effects.
Ability: Refrigerate
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user uses a Normal-Type damaging Move
Effect: The Move is changed to be Ice-Type.
Ability: Regal Challenge
Scene ­ Swift Action
Target: Pokémon or Trainer within 5 Meters
Effect: Make an AC4 Status Attack against the target.
If the attack hits, lower the target's Speed by 1 Combat
Stage and the target is Slowed. If the attack misses, raise
the user's Attack and Special Attack by +1 Combat Stage
each.
Indices and Reference
328
Ability: Regenerator
Daily x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is recalled into a Poké Ball, or Takes
a Breather
Effect: The user gains Hit Points equal to 1/3rd of its
maximum Hit Points. Regenerator may be activated
only once per Scene.
Ability: Rivalry
Static
Effect: Whenever the user deals direct damage to a
target of the same gender, increase the Damage dealt by
+5.
Ability: Rock Head
Static
Effect: The user ignores the Recoil keyword when
attacking.
Ability: Rocket
Scene ­ Swift Action
Effect: The user's Sky capability is increased by +3 until
the end of the user's next turn, and the user goes first
on the following round, ignoring initiative; Interrupt
Moves may not be used in response to their Moves that
round.
Ability: Root Down
At-Will ­ Shift Action
Effect: Connection - Ingrain. While the user has the
Ingrain Coat, they may activate this Ability to gain
Temporary Hit Points equal to 1/16th of their Max Hit
Points.
Ability: Rough Skin
At-Will - Free Action, Reaction
Trigger: The user is hit by a damaging Melee Attack
Effect: The attacker loses a tick of Hit Points.
Ability: Run Away
Static
Effect: The user cannot be Slowed, Stuck, or Trapped.
The user does not provoke Attacks of Opportunity by
Shifting.
Ability: Run Up
Static
Effect: If the user moves in a straight line to a target and
uses a damaging Melee Attack, it may add the number
of meters traveled in a direct line as Bonus Damage to
a Damage Roll.
Ability: Sand Force
Static
Effect: While in a Sandstorm, the user's Ground, Rock,
and Steel-Type Direct-Damage Moves deal +5 Damage.
Additionally, the user is immune to damage from
Sandstorms.
Ability: Sand Rush
Static
Effect: While the Weather is a Sandstorm, the user
gains +4 Speed Combat Stages. Additionally, the user is
immune to damage from Sandstorms.
Ability: Sand Stream
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: The Weather changes to a Sandstorm for 5
rounds. As a static effect, the user is not damaged by
Sandstorm.
Ability: Sand Veil
Static
Effect: The user's Evasion is increased by +2 while in a
Sandstorm. The user and allies adjacent to the user are
not damaged by the Sandstorm.
Ability: Sap Sipper
Static
Effect: The user is immune to the damage and effects
of Grass Type attacks. If a damaging Grass Type attack
hits the user, the user gains +1 Attack Combat Stage.
Defensive.
Ability: Scrappy
Static
Effect: Ghost Types are not immune to the user's
Normal and Fighting-Type Moves.
Ability: Sequence
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user uses an Electric Attack
Effect: For every allied Electric-Type Pokémon
cardinally adjacent to the user, raise the user's Attack
and Special Attack by +1 CS each before calculating
damage for the triggering attack. After the attack is
resolved, lose all Combat Stages gained this way.
Ability: Serene Grace
Static
Effect: The user's Effect Range is increased by +2.
Indices and Reference
329
Ability: Serpent's Mark
Static
Effect: Arbok's Advanced and High Abilities depend on
the Arbok's hood pattern. To determine its pattern, roll
1d6 upon evolution or upon generation. If an Arbok is
bred, it will have the same pattern as its parent. If both
parents are Arboks with different patterns, determine
the pattern randomly.
Pattern Name - Adv Ability / High Ability
1) Attack Pattern - Rivalry / Strong Jaw
2) Crush Pattern - Unnerve / Crush Trap
3) Fear Pattern - Frighten / Regal Challenge
4) Life Pattern ­ Regenerator / Defy Death
5) Speed Pattern - Run Away / Speed Boost
6) Stealth Pattern - Instinct / Infiltrator
Ability: Shackle
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: Shackle creates a Burst 3. All foes in the burst
have their movement capabilities halved until the end
of their next turn.
Ability: Shadow Tag
Scene ­ Free Action
Target: An adjacent Trainer or Pokémon
Effect: The target's shadow becomes pinned to the
target's current spot for 5 turns. During this time, the
target is Slowed and Trapped, and cannot move more
than 5 meters from the spot their shadow is pinned to;
even being Pushed and other forced movement effects
cannot force the target to Move more than 5 meters
from that spot.
Ability: Shed Skin
Scene ­ Swift Action
Effect: The user is cured of one of Paralysis, Freezing,
Burns, Poison, or Sleep.
Ability: Sheer Force
Static
Effect: If a Pokémon with Sheer Force uses a Move with
a secondary effect that triggers during Accuracy Roll,
increase that Move's Damage Base by +2. However, the
secondary effects of Move never trigger. This does not
affect Critical Hits, or moves with increased Critical Hit
ranges.
Ability: Shell Armor
Static
Effect: The user is immune to Critical Hits; they are
instead normal hits. Defensive.
Ability: Shell Cannon
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: When Blastoise uses Aqua Jet, Dive, Flash
Cannon, Hydro Cannon, Hydro Pump, Tackle, Waterfall,
Water Gun, and Water Spout they may activate this
Ability to gain +2 to their Accuracy Roll and deals +4
Bonus Damage with Damage Rolls. When using Aqua
Jet, Dive, Tackle, or Waterfall, Blastoise must shift in a
straight line to their target to activate this Ability, but
their Overland and Swim Speeds are increased by +2
when doing so.
Ability: Shell Shield
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: Connection - Withdraw. The user may activate
this Ability to use Withdraw as an Interrupt and a Free
Action. The user must still use a Shift Action to stop
being Withdrawn.
Ability: Shield Dust
Static
Effect: The user ignores the secondary effects that
trigger during Accuracy Roll of damaging Moves that
target the user. For example, Flamethrower can never
inflict the Burn Condition. Defensive.
Ability: Silk Threads
Static
Effect: Connection - String Shot. Whenever the user
uses "String Shot", the target becomes Slowed until the
end of their next turn.
Ability: Simple
Static
Effect: When the Pokémon's Combat Stages are altered,
double the amount of Combat Stages they are raised or
lowered.
Ability: Skill Link
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user hits with a Move with the Five Strike
keyword.
Effect: The Triggering Move automatically hits 5 Times.
Indices and Reference
330
Ability: Slow Start
Static
Effect: For 3 rounds after joining an encounter, the
user's Speed and Attack Stats are halved and they have
10 Damage Reduction.
Ability: Sniper
Static
Effect: When the Pokémon gets a Critical Hit, add the
value of the Damage Dice Roll an additional time to the
total damage.
Ability: Snow Cloak
Static
Effect: The user's Evasion is increased by +2 while in
Hail. The user and allies adjacent to the user are not
damaged by Hail.
Ability: Snow Warning
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: The Weather changes to Hail for 5 rounds. As a
static effect the user is not damaged by Hail.
Ability: Solar Power
Static
Effect: When Sunny, the Pokémon loses 1/16th of its
Max HP at the beginning of its turn. When Sunny, its
Special Attack Stat is increased by 2 Combat Stages.
Ability: Solid Rock
Static
Effect: When the user is hit by a Super-Effective attack,
the attack deals 1.5x damage instead of x2 damage. If the
user is hit by a Super-Super-Effective attack, the attack
deals x2 damage instead of x3 damage. If you have both
Solid Rock and Filter, you gain 5 Damage Reduction
against Super-Effective Damage. Defensive.
Ability: Sonic Courtship
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user uses Attract
Effect: Connection - Attract. Treat Attract as a Cone 2
Move with the Sonic keyword for this use, which affects
all targets regardless of Gender.
Ability: Soothing Tone
Static
Effect: Connection - Heal Bell. Whenever the user uses
the Move Heal Bell, all targets that recovered from a
Status ailment gain a Tick of Hit Points.
Ability: Soulstealer
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user's attack causes a foe to Faint
Effect: The user removes one Injury from themselves
and recovers 25% of their Maximum Hit Points. If
the triggering attack killed its target, the user instead
removes all Injuries and recovers all Hit Points.
Ability: Sound Lance
Scene x2 - Swift Action
Trigger: The user uses Supersonic
Effect: Connection ­ Supersonic. The target of
Supersonic takes Special Normal-Type damage equal
to the user's Special Attack score. This effect functions
independently of whether Supersonic hits its target.
Ability: Soundproof
Static
Effect: The Pokémon is immune to Moves with the
Sonic Keyword. Defensive.
Ability: Speed Boost
Static
Effect: The Pokémon's Speed is raised 1 Combat Stage
at the end of each of its turns. Speed Boost has no effect
while out of combat.
Ability: Spinning Dance
At-Will - Free Action
Trigger: The user is targeted by an attack, but is missed
Effect: If not Fainted, Paralyzed, or Asleep, the user
gains +1 Evasion and may immediately Shift 1 meter.
Ability: Spiteful Intervention
Static
Effect: Connection ­ Spite. The user may use Spite
in response to an attack hitting an ally, in addition to
hitting themselves.
Ability: Spray Down
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user hits an airborne target with a ranged
1-target attack
Effect: The triggering attack's target is knocked down
to ground level, and loses all Sky or Levitate Speeds for
3 turns. During this time, they may be hit by Ground-
Type Moves even if normally immune.
Indices and Reference
331
Ability: Sprint
Scene ­ Swift Action
Trigger: The user uses the Sprint Action during Combat
Effect: The user gains +2 Speed Combat Stages.
Additionally, the user's Overland Speed is always
increased by +2.
Ability: Static
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Melee Attack
Effect: The attacking foe becomes Paralyzed.
Ability: Stall
Static
Effect: In a round's queue, a Pokémon with Stall is
always last. If a Pokémon goes to the end of the queue,
the Pokémon with Stall is still the last to move. The user's
actions taken on their Initiative Count (not Priority or
Interrupt) cannot be Interrupted.
Ability: Stance Change
Static
Effect: Aegislash has two Stances: Shield Stance and
Sword Stance. Its default Stance is Shield Stance.
Whenever Aegislash uses a damaging attack, it switches
to Sword Stance and swaps its Attack Stat with its
Defense and its Special Attack Stat with its Special
Defense, without changing Combat Stages. Whenever
Aegislash uses King's Shield, Protect, a Status Move that
raises Defense Combat Stages, or a Blessing, it switches
to Shield Stance and swaps its offensive and defensive
Stats back to their original arrangement. Aegislash may
also change its Stance as a Full Action.
Ability: Starlight
Scene ­ Swift Action
Effect: The user may activate Starlight while exposed
to moonlight or starlight to become Luminous. While
the user is Luminous, all foes suffer a -2 penalty to
Accuracy Rolls against the user. The user may expend
the Luminous condition upon hitting a foe with a
damaging attack to cause that foe to become Confused.
Ability: Starswirl
Scene ­ Swift Action
Effect: Connection ­ Rapid Spin. The user may activate
this Ability to user Rapid Spin as a Swift Action that
deals no damage. Rapid Spin need not have a target
when used this way.
Ability: Steadfast
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is Flinched
Effect: The user's Speed is raised by +1 Combat Stage.
Ability: Stench
Static
Effect: The Pokémon's Moves Flinch Targets on a roll of
19+. If a move already has a chance of Flinching foes,
the Effect Range is increased by +2 instead.
Ability: Sticky Hold
Static
Effect: The Pokémon's held items cannot be stolen,
switched, destroyed or dropped.
Ability: Sticky Smoke
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: Connection - Smokescreen. All targets that
begin or end their turn in the target's Smokescreen have
their Accuracy lowered by -1. This penalty may occur
multiple times. This stacks with the usual penalties
from Smokescreen.
Ability: Storm Drain
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: A ranged Water-Type Move is used within 10
Meters of the user.
Effect: The Move is turned into a Single-Target Move and
is re-directed at the user without fail, and cannot miss.
This negates Lock-On or Mind Reader. Additionally,
the user is immune to the damage and effects of Water
Type attacks, and each time they are hit by a Water-
Type attack, the user's Special Attack is raised 1 Combat
Stage. Defensive.
Ability: Strange Tempo
At-Will - Special
Effect: While Confused, the user may choose either to
1) As a Free Action, not to roll for Confusion, instead
acting normally or 2) As a Standard Action, cure
themselves of Confusion and gain +2 Combat Stages to
the Stat of their choice.
Ability: Strong Jaw
Static
Effect: The user has the Damage Base of the following
Moves increased by +2; Bite, Bug Bite, Crunch, Fire
Fang, Ice Fang, Thunder Fang, Poison Fang, and Hyper
Fang.
Indices and Reference
332
Ability: Sturdy
Static
Effect: The Pokémon is immune to the Moves Sheer
Cold, Guillotine, Horn Drill and Fissure. If any attack
would lower this Pokémon to 0 Hit Points or less from
full Hit Points, instead the Pokémon's Hit Point value is
set to 1. This effect fails if the user's full Hit Point value
is 1. Pokémon with Sturdy do not gain Injuries from
Massive Damage. Defensive.
Ability: Suction Cups
Static
Effect: The user is immune to Push effects, and the
effects of Roar. Defensive.
Ability: Sumo Stance
Static
Effect: The user's Weight Class is increased by +1, and
the user is immune to Push effects. Defensive.
Ability: Sun Blanket
Static
Effect: The user is one step more resistant to Fire-Type
Attacks, and gains a Tick of Hit Points at the beginning
of each turn in Sunny weather.
Ability: Sunglow
Scene ­ Swift Action
Effect: The user may activate Sunglow while exposed
to sunlight to become Radiant. While Radiant, the user
gains a +5 bonus to all Damage Rolls. The user may
expend the Radiant condition upon hitting a foe with
a damaging attack to cause that foe to become Blinded
until the end of their next turn.
Ability: Super Luck
Static
Effect: The Pokémon's Moves are Critical Hits on 18-20.
If a Move already has an extended Critical Hit range,
Super Luck extends that range by 2.
Ability: Swarm
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Bug.
Ability: Sway
Scene ­ Standard Action, Interrupt
Trigger: The user is hit by a damaging Melee attack
Effect: The triggering attack misses the user and hits the
foe that made the attack instead. That foe may then be
pushed to any empty square adjacent to the user.
Ability: Sweet Veil
Static
Effect: The user and allies within 3 meters are immune
to Sleep. Defensive.
Ability: Swift Swim
Static
Effect: While in Rainy Weather, the user gains +4 Speed
Combat Stages.
Ability: Symbiosis
At-Will - Swift Action
Effect: The user may pass its held item to an adjacent
ally.
Ability: Synchronize
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is Paralyzed, Frozen, Burned,
Poisoned, or put to Sleep.
Effect: The foe which caused the Status Condition is
given the same Status they inflicted.
Ability: Tangled Feet
Static
Effect: While Confused, the user gains +3 Evasion.
Ability: Targeting System
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: Connection ­ Lock-On. The user may activate
this Ability to use Lock-On as a Swift Action.
Ability: Teamwork
Static
Effect: While you are adjacent to an opponent, allies
using Melee attacks against that opponent receive a +2
bonus to Accuracy Checks.
Ability: Technician
Static
Effect: Moves with a Damage Base of 6 or lower have
their Damage Base increased by +2. This bonus always
applies to Moves with the Double Strike or Fivestrike
Keywords.
Ability: Telepathy
At-Will - Shift Action, Interrupt
Trigger: An ally uses an area-of-effect attack that would
hit you
Effect: You may Shift to remove yourself from the area-
of-effect.
Indices and Reference
333
Ability: Teravolt
At-Will - Free Action
Trigger: The user damages a foe
Effect: The damaged foe's Abilities are disabled for the
remainder of the encounter.
Ability: Thermosensitive
Static
Effect: While Sunny, the user's Attack and Special Attack
are raised by +2 combat stages each. While Hailing, the
user's movement capabilities are reduced by half.
Ability: Thick Fat
Static
Effect: The user resists Fire-Type and Ice-Type attacks
one step further. Defensive.
Ability: Thrust
Static
Effect: All moves used by this Pokémon which consult
the Attack stat now have the Push keyword. The default
push for moves is 1 meter. If a move already has the
Push Keyword, that move may push 1 additional meter.
Ability: Thunder Boost
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: An adjacent Ally uses a damaging Electric-
Type Move
Effect: The allied target gains a +5 Bonus to its damage
roll with the triggering Move. A target may not benefit
from more than one instance of Thunder Boost at a
time.
Ability: Tingly Tongue
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user hits a target with Lick
Effect: Connection ­ Lick. Lick's Damage Roll gains a
+10 Bonus and automatically paralyses its target. On
a roll of 15+, the target automatically fails its Paralysis
Save Check on its next turn.
Ability: Tinted Lens
Static
Effect: The user's Resisted Moves are instead Neutral.
The user's Doubly Resisted Moves are instead Resisted.
The user's Triply Resisted Moves are instead Double
Resisted.
Ability: Tochukaso
Static
Effect: The user resists Bug-Type and Poison-Type
attacks one step further. Defensive.
Ability: Tolerance
Static
Effect: Any Types resisted by the user are resisted one
step further. Defensive.
Ability: Torrent
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Water.
Ability: Tough Claws
Static
Effect: The user increases the Damage Base of all Melee
Moves by +2.
Ability: Toxic Boost
Static
Effect: When Poisoned or Badly Poisoned, the user's
Attack is raised by 2 Combat Stages. If the user is cured
of its Poisoning, its Attack stat is lowered by 2 Combat
Stages.
Ability: Trace
Scene ­ Free Action
Target: A Trainer or Pokémon within 10 meters
Effect: The Pokémon gains an Ability known by the
Target for the remainder of the encounter, or until it is
Fainted.
Ability: Transporter
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: You use the Move Teleport or activate the
Teleporter Capability
Choose One Effect: Connection ­ Teleport. You activate
Teleporter as if your Teleporter value were three times
its normal value or you may take one willing Pokémon
or Trainer along with you as you teleport so long as you
are touching them when you activate Transporter. You
may expend two uses of Transporter at once to choose
both effects.
Indices and Reference
334
Ability: Truant
Static
Effect: At the beginning of each of its turns, the user
must roll 1d20. On a roll of 7 or lower, the target refuses
to act; they heal a Tick of Hit Points, and do not get
a Standard Action that turn. Turns in which the user
refuses to act count towards turns used up by Interrupts
or the Exhausted Condition, and the user may make
Rolls to cure themselves from Status Effects with a +3
Bonus that turn.
Ability: Turboblaze
At-Will - Free Action
Trigger: The user damages a foe
Effect: The damaged foe's Abilities are disabled for the
remainder of the encounter.
Ability: Twisted Power
Static
Effect: The user adds half of their Attack Stat to the
damage rolls of their Special Moves; and the user adds
half of their Special Attack Stat to the damage of their
Physical Moves. This does not change the Damage Class
of any attack.
Ability: Type Strategist
Static
Effect: Whenever the user uses a Move of the Type
associated with Type Strategist, they gain +5 Damage
Reduction for one full round. If they are under 1/3rd
of their Maximum Hit Points, they instead gain +10
Damage Reduction. Defensive.
Ability: Ugly
Static
Effect: The Pokémon's Moves Flinch Targets on a roll of
19+. If a move already has a chance of Flinching foes,
the Effect Range is increased by +2 instead. During the
Introduction Stage of a Contest using this Pokémon,
any 6s that are rolled instead count as 1s.
Ability: Unaware
Static
Effect: When the Pokémon is attacking or being
attacked, the foe must make all damage calculations as
if their Combat Stages were at their default state.
Ability: Unbreakable
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Steel.
Ability: Unburden
Static
Effect: If the user is not holding a Held Item, their Speed
is increased by +2 Combat Stages.
Ability: Unnerve
Static
Effect: Foes within 3 meters of you cannot gain positive
Combat Stages or trade in Digestion Buffs. This does
not affect any Combat Stages they already have.
Ability List: V­Z
Ability: Vanguard
Static
Effect: The user gains a +5 Bonus to all Damage Rolls
against targets with an initiative lower than itself that
have not yet acted that round (having Ante'd up your
Action via an Interrupt or similar on a previous round
does not count as having acted that round).
Ability: Venom
Static
Effect: The user gains Last Chance with Poison.
Ability: Vicious
Scene ­ Special
Trigger: The user uses Hone Claws
Effect: Connection ­ Hone Claws. When this Ability
is activated, choose one effect; the user gains another
Standard Action this round; or the user increase their
Critical Hit Range on all attacks by +2 for the remainder
of the encounter.
Ability: Victory Star
Static
Effect: Any allied Pokémon in the encounter gain a +2
Bonus to Accuracy Rolls.
Ability: Vigor
Daily ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user uses Endure
Effect: Connection ­ Endure. When this Ability is
activated, after being set to 1 Hit Point, the user gains
a Tick of Hit Points. Furthermore, if the Move that
triggered Endure gave the user an Injury from Massive
Damage, the user does not gain that Injury. Defensive.
Indices and Reference
335
Ability: Vital Spirit
Static
Effect: The user is immune to the Sleep condition, and
cannot use the move Rest. Defensive.
Ability: Volt Absorb
Static
Effect: The user is immune to the damage and effects of
Electric-Type attacks, and whenever they are hit with an
Electric Type attack, they gain Hit Points equal to a Tick
of Hit Points. Defensive.
Ability: Voodoo Doll
Daily ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user uses the Move Curse as a Ghost Type
Effect: Connection - Curse. Choose an additional target
within 8 meters of the user to become Cursed.
Ability: Wallmaster
Static
Effect: Connection ­ Barrier. Whenever the user uses
Barrier, they may choose to either gain +2 Defense
Combat Stages, or place 2 additional segments of
Barrier.
Ability: Wash Away
Daily ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user hits with a Water Type Move
Effect: Before the Move "hits", all Combat Stages on
targets hit by the Move are reset to their default (usually
0), and all coats on the targets, except ones placed by
Water Sport, are destroyed.
Ability: Water Absorb
Static
Effect: The user is immune to the damage and effects
of Water-Type attacks, and whenever they are hit with
a Water Type attack, they gain a Tick of Hit Points.
Defensive.
Ability: Water Veil
Static
Keywords: Immune
Effect: The user is immune to Burns. Defensive.
Ability: Wave Rider
Static
Effect: While in water, the user's Speed Stat gains +4
Combat Stages. Remove these Combat Stages if the user
exits the water.
Ability: Weak Armor
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user takes Physical damage.
Effect: The user may lower its Defense by 1 Combat
Stage, and gain +1 Speed Combat Stage. This is done
after the triggering damage is resolved.
Ability: Weaponize
Static
Effect: While being wielded as a Living Weapon and
being actively Commanded as a Pokémon, the user may
Intercept for its Wielder as a Free Action.
Ability: Weeble
At-Will ­ Standard Action, Reaction
Trigger: The user is hit by a damaging attack
Effect: The user may make an AC4 Physical Attack
against an adjacent target. If the attack hits, the target
loses Hit Points equal to 1/3rd of the damage taken by
the user from the attack that triggered Weeble.
Ability: Whirlwind Kicks
Static
Effect: Connection ­ Rapid Spin. When the user uses
the Move "Rapid Spin", it has a range of "Burst 1" instead
of Melee and gains the Priority keyword.
Ability: White Flame
Static
Effect: The user may not make rolls to cure themselves
from the Enraged condition. However, while Enraged,
the user gains a +5 Bonus to all Damage Rolls.
Ability: White Smoke
Static
Effect: The user's Combat Stages, Evasion, or Accuracy
may not be lowered except by the user's own Moves and
effects. Defensive.
Ability: Windveiled
Static
Effect: The user is immune to the damage and effects of
Flying-Type attacks. If the user is hit by a Flying-Type
attack, the user raises the Damage Base of their next
Flying-Type Move by +1. Defensive.
Indices and Reference
336
Ability: Winter's Kiss
Static
Effect: The user does not take damage from Ice-Type
Moves. Whenever the user uses or is hit by an Ice-
Type Move, the user is healed by a Tick of Hit Points.
Defensive.
Ability: Wishmaster
Static
Effect: Connection ­ Wish. Whenever the user uses
Wish, the user may pick one of the following effects: the
target is healed instantly instead of the following round;
or the target gains +2 CS to the Stat of their choice
upon being healed; or the target is cured of any Status
Affliction.
Ability: Wistful Melody
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: Connection ­ Sing. Whenever the user uses
Sing, they may activate to his Ability to cause targets
that are targeted by Sing have their Attack and Special
Attack lowered by -2 CS each, whether Sing successfully
hits that target or not. This Ability does not affect targets
with the Soundproof Ability.
Ability: Wobble
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a damaging attack
Effect: The user may use either Counter or Mirror Coat
as a Reaction, ignoring Frequency.
Ability: Wonder Guard
Static
Effect: Only damaging attacks that are Super-Effective
affect the Pokémon with Wonder Guard; all other
damaging attacks cannot hit the user or deal damage.
Wonder Guard loses its effect if the user has no
weaknesses. Defensive.
Ability: Wonder Skin
Static
Effect: The user gains +6 Evasion against Status Moves.
Defensive.
Ability: Zen Mode
Static
Effect: Keep two sets of Base Stats for Darmanitan, the
first set of Base Stats are its normal stats while the second
will be referred to during Zen Mode. The HP Stat for
both sets of Base Stats must be the same. If Darmanitan
has its Base Stats altered in any way, both sets of Base
Stats are affected. As a Free Action, Darmanitan may
activate Zen Mode if it is at less than 50% of its full Hit
Points. Darmanitan may change back from Zen Mode
as a Free Action if its Hit Point total is at 50% or higher.
Darmanitan may switch from one form to another once
per Scene.
