Indices and Reference
310
Abilities are a special type of trait that Pokémon and
some Trainers can have. Pokémon are all born with one
Ability and may naturally grow to learn others or can
be taught them by a dedicated Trainer. Most Abilities
are passive effects, or Static in game terms, that are
constantly on whether for good or ill. Other activate
when certain conditions are met, such as the presence
of a particular Weather or being hit by a specific Type
of attack. A few Abilities require more active focus to
execute and take up a Pokémon or Trainer's Standard
Action just as a Move would.
Abilities are read much like Moves or Features are.
Name: The Name is what the Ability is called. This is
useful for keeping track of what Ability your Pokémon
has.
Frequency ­ Action Type: The Frequency is how often
the Ability can be used. These generally are Static, At-
Will, Scene, or Daily. These Frequencies are the same
as Feature or Move Frequencies of the same name.
The Action Type listed determines the sort of action
required to activate the ability ­ usually a free action.
Effect: The Effect is of course what the Ability does.
Ability Keywords
Some abilities may have a Keyword descriptor. See
below for the Ability keywords.
Connection: This keyword is followed by a Move, with
which the user has an innate connection. Upon gaining
the Ability, the user learns the Move, forgetting another
Move if necessary. This Move cannot be forgotten
through any means. If the user has 1 Tutor Point,
they may immediately spend it to gain the "Advanced
Connection" Edge and avoid forgetting any Moves.
Defensive:
Immune: Abilities with the keyword Immune cannot be
affected by a certain Status Affliction. This is described
per Ability.
Last Chance: Last Chance Abilities are always associated
with an Elemental Type. The user gains a +5 bonus to
Damage Rolls when using attacks of that Type. This
bonus increases to +10 when the user is under 1/3rd of
their Maximum Hit Points.
Pickup: The Ability Pickup lets Pokémon or Trainers
find items using their natural senses and natural
curiosity, or using psychic abilities. Whenever the ability
is activated, roll 1d20 and consult the chart below. The
chart determines the category of Item, but the GM
decides what the specific Item is.
Roll Item Type Other
1-5 None You find nothing
6-7 X-Item One X Attack, or X
Defend, Etc.
8-10 Berries Any Random Berry
11-13 Poké Ball Any Random Poké Ball
14-16 Status/Healing Any Random Status
healing item or HP
healing item
17 Evolutionary
Stones
Any Random
Evolutionary Stone
18 Performance
Enhancers
Any Random Vitamin
19 Hold Item Any Random Hold Item
20 TM Any Random TM

Abilities
