Feb 2016 Playtest
12
New Abilities!
Ability: Aqua Bullet
Static
Effect: Connection - Aqua Jet. The user may use Water-
Type Moves as a Full Action to gain Sky 10 and shift in a
straight line before attempting to use their Move. When
shifting this way, the user does not provoke attacks of
opportunity.
Ability: Designer
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Effect: The user is adept at crafting clothes for itself out of
common leaves. When activating this ability to create a leaf
suit, the user may choose two Types; the user resists the
chosen types one step further while wearing that suit. The
user may only have one leaf suit at a time, and creating a
new suit destroys the old one.
Ability: Combo Striker
At-Will - Free Action
Trigger: The user rolls a natural 1, 10, or 11 on an attack roll
with a damaging move
Effect: After the triggering attack is resolved, the user may
use a Struggle Attack as a Free Action.
Note: Yes, Struggle Attacks made due to Combo Striker may
trigger Combo Striker.
Ability: Dream Smoke
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user is hit by a Melee Attack
Effect: The attacking foe falls Asleep.
Ability: Eggscellence
Static
Effect: Connection ­ Barrage. The user receives STAB
when using Barrage and Egg Bomb. If Normal Typed, these
Moves deal Damage as if one step more effective on 16+.
Ability: Empower
Scene - Swift Action
Effect: The user may use a self-targeting Status-Class Move
as a Free Action.
Ability: Flower Power
Static
Effect: The user may perform damaging Grass Type Moves
as if they were their choice of either Physical or Special.
Ability: Full Guard
Scene - Swift Action
Trigger: You take Damage while having Temporary Hit
Points
Effect: You resist the triggering Damage one step further.
Bonus: Whenever you take Super-Effective Damage and
you have no Temporary Hit Points, you gain a tick of
Temporary Hit Points. Defensive.
Ability: Giver
Scene x2 - Swift Action
Effect: Connection - Present. After rolling to determine
Present's Damage Base, you may choose to ignore the roll
and act as if you had rolled a 1 or a 5.
Bonus: The user may know any number of TM and Tutor
Moves, instead of a maximum of three.
Ability: Heliovolt
At-Will - Swift Action
Trigger: The user uses an Electric-Type Move
Effect: For 1 full round, the user gains +1 Evasion and is
considered to be in Sunny Weather.
Ability: Juicy Energy
Daily ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user trades in a Berry Juice Food Buff
Effect: Instead of gaining 30 Hit Points, the user gains Hit
Points equal to their Level
Ability: Lancer
Static
Effect: During their turn, if the user Shifts at least 3
meters, they gain a +3 Bonus to Critical Hit Range until
the beginning of their next turn. If they do not Shift or
Disengage at all, they gain +5 Damage Reduction until the
beginning of their next turn.
Ability: Leaf Rush
Scene x2 - Free Action, Priority
Effect: The user may activate Leaf Rush to use a Grass-Type
Move with Priority. If the Move is a Damaging Move, the
user adds half their Speed Stat to the Damage Roll.
Ability: Leafy Cloak
Static
Effect: Whenever the user activates Designer, theychoose
two of Chlorophyll, Leaf Guard, or Overcoat. Until the user
activates Designer again, they gain the chosen Abilities.
Ability: Line Charge
Static
Effect: The user can only shift in cardinal directions on the
grid. However, they do not provoke attacks of opportunity
from Shifting.
Feb 2016 Playtest
13
Ability: Maelstrom Pulse
Scene x2 - Free Action, Priority
Effect: The user may activate Maelstrom Pulse to use a
Water-Type Move with Priority. If the Move is a Damaging
Move, the user adds half their Speed Stat to the Damage Roll.
Ability: Needles
Static
Effect: Connection ­ Needle Arm. Whenever the user hits a
target with a Physical Melee attack, that target loses a Tick of
Hit Points.
Ability: Nimble Strikes
Static
Effect: The user adds half their Speed Stat to the Damage
Rolls of their physical Normal-Type Moves.
Ability: Ragelope
Static
Effect: The user's Physical Attacks gain the following Effect
Range: On 18+, the user becomes Enraged and gains +1
Speed CS. If the user is already Enraged, they gain +1 Attack
CS instead.
Ability: Sacred Bell
Static
Effect: The user resists Dark and Ghost-Type Damage one
step further.
Ability: Seasonal
Static
Effect: The user gains an Ability based on the season.
- Spring: Run Away - Summer: Grass Pelt
- Autumn: Rivalry - Winter: Thick Fat
Ability: Snuggle
Scene - Standard Action
Target: An adjacent target
Effect: The user and the target each gain two ticks of
Temporary Hit Points.
Ability: Sol Veil
Static
Effect: The user gains +1 Evasion. This is increased to +2
Evasion while in Sunny Weather or on grassy terrain. While
in Sunny Weather, the user gains +5 Damage Reduction.
Ability: Sorcery
Static
Effect: The user's Base Special Attack Stat is increased by +5,
and by +1 more for every 10 Levels the user has. This Ability
cannot be disabled in any way.
Ability: Spike Shot
Static
Effect: The user may use Moves with a Range of "Melee,
1-Target" as if they had a Range of "8, 1-Target" instead.
Ability: Tingle
At-Will - Free Action
Trigger: The user hits an adjacent target foe with a 1-Target
attack
Effect: The target loses a Tick of Hit Points and takes a -5
penalty to Damage Rolls for 1 full round.
Ability: Tonguelash
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user hits a target with Lick
Effect: Connection ­ Lick. Lick automatically Paralyzes and
Flinches its target.
Bonus: The user may use Lick as if it was Normal-Typed.
Ability: Trinity
Static
Effect: Connection - Tri Attack. You may use Tri Attack as if
it had a range of "Melee, 3 Targets". Make a different attack
roll for each target. If Tri-Attack's effect range is activated,
do not roll for the effect; the first target can only be Frozen,
the second can only be Burned, and the third can only be
Paralyzed. Additionally, you may use Tri-Attack as a Physical
Attack if you wish.
Ability: Type Aura
Static
Effect: The user and all allies within 3 meters gain a +5
Bonus to Damage Rolls with Moves matching the user's
Primary Type.
Ability: Weird power
Static
Effect: If the user's Attack is higher than its Special Attack,
the user may add its Attack Stat to its Special Damage Rolls.
If their Special Attack is higher, they user may add its Special
Attack Stat to its Physical Damage Rolls. This does not stack
with Mixed Power.
