Sept 2015 Playtest
9
Poké Edge Changes
Basic Ranged Attacks now has no Level Prerequisite.
Mixed Sweeper is replaced with the following:
Mixed Power
Prerequisites: Level 10, Invested at least 5 Level-Up Stat
Points into both Attack and Special Attack
Cost: 2 Tutor Points
Effect: The user gains the Twisted Power Ability.
Fire Ace's Incadescence is adjusted as follows:
Incandescence
[Orders] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Brightest Flame, Type-Linked Skill at
Expert
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Trigger: Your Fire-Type Pokémon
Effect: While this Feature is Bound, the target gains
the Mixed Power Poké Edge effect when using damag-
ing Fire-Type Attacks. If the target already has Mixed
Power, they instead add their entire Attack and Special
Attack Stats to all damaging Fire-Type Attacks, instead
of one or the other. This does not stack with Twisted
Power.
The following Pokémon which naturally gain Twisted
Power instead gain the Abilities below in that slot:
Tynamo Line: Sequence
Cacnea Line: Needles (Rough Skin becomes a Basic
Ability, Needles is an Advanced Ability in its place)
Exeggcute Line: Eggscellence
Carvanha: Pack Hunt
Sharpedo: Bully
Murkrow: Magician
Hydreigon: Bully
New and Adjusted Abilities:
Ability: Needles
Static
Effect: Connection ­ Needle Arm. Whenever the user
hits a target with a Physical Melee attack, that target
loses a Tick of Hit Points.
Ability: Sequence
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user uses an Electric Attack
Effect: For every allied Electric-Type Pokémon adjacent
to the user, the triggering Attack deals an additional +3
Damage.
Ability: Eggscellence
Static
Effect: Connection ­ Barrage. The user receives STAB
when using Barrage and Egg Bomb. These Moves deal
Damage as if one step more effective on 16+.
Tutor and Inheritance Move Changes
All Moves taught through Tutoring Features (Ex: Mentor's Move Tutor and Egg Tutor, Chronicler's Archive Tutor)
now have prerequisites:
»
» Pokémon under Level 20 may only learn Moves of an At-Will or EOT Frequency with a max Damage Base of 7.
»
» Pokémon from Level 20 to 29 may only learn Moves with up to a Scene Frequency and max Damage Base of 9.
»
» Pokémonn at Level 30 and above have no restrictions when being taught Moves through Tutors.
This applies to Inheritance Moves as well. If a Pokémon were to have Heal Pulse as its only Inheritance Move, that
Move would be gained at Level 30 despite the Level 20 slot for Inheritance Moves being empty.
