Trainer Classes
75
Ace Trainer
[Class]
Prerequisites: Novice Command
Drain 1 AP ­ Extended Action
Trigger: You spend at least half an hour training your Pokémon
Effect: For each Pokémon that has been trained during this time, choose a Stat besides HP; that Stat becomes
Trained until an Extended Rest is taken. The default State of Trained Stats is +1 Combat Stages instead of 0. A
Pokémon may have only one Trained Stat at a time.
Note: Just to clarify, this Feature Drains 1 AP per training session, not per Pokémon. So train as many as you can
to get the most out of this Feature!
Perseverance
Prerequisites: Ace Trainer
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon gains an Injury
Effect: The target instead does not gain an Injury.
Perseverance may activate only once per Scene per
target.
Elite Trainer
Prerequisites: Ace Trainer
Static
Effect: Choose Agility Training, Brutal Training,
Focused Training, or Inspired Training. You gain
the chosen Feature, even if you do not meet the
prerequisites. When training, you may apply up to two
different [Training] Features on each of your Pokémon.
If you already have all of these Features, instead pick
another Feature for which you qualify.
Critical Moment
[Orders]
Prerequisites: Elite Trainer, Adept Command
Scene x2 ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Pokemon with [Training] Features applied
Effect: The bonuses from your Pokemon's [Training]
are tripled until the end of your next turn.
Top Percentage
Prerequisites: Ace Trainer, Expert Command
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon levels up to a Level evenly
divisible by 5
Effect: Your Pokémon gains an extra Tutor Point.
Top Percentage may be used on a single Pokémon a
maximum of 4 times. Once a Pokémon has gained 4
Tutor Points in this way, increase each of that Pokémon's
Base Stats by +1.
Signature Technique
Prerequisites: Elite Trainer, Expert Command
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Pokémon with at least 2 Tutor Points
remaining
Effect: The target loses 2 Tutor Points. Choose one
Move on the Target's Move List. That Move becomes
the target's Signature Technique, and you may apply
one of the modifications on the next page to the Move.
The Move being modified must fit the category of the
modification, and you must have the associated Training
Feature to apply a modification. A Pokémon may only
have one Signature Technique at a time. If you choose
to teach a Pokémon a different Signature Technique, the
old one is lost, and 1 Tutor Point is refunded. 1 Tutor
Point is also refunded if the Pokémon ever forgets a
Signature Technique Move.
Note: Be sure to give a cool name to your Pokémon's
Signature Technique!
Champ in the Making
Prerequisites: 4 Ace Trainer Features, Master Command
Drain 1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: You use Ace Trainer to give Pokémon Trained
Stats
Effect: Choose two Trained Stats for each Pokémon
instead of one. A Pokémon may only have two Trained
Stats this way.
Trainer Classes
76
Cone, Line, Burst, and Blast Moves
Scattershot ­ Agility Training: Instead of the Move's
normal range, it has a range of 4m, 3 Targets.
Shock and Awe ­ Inspired Training: Foes targeted
by the Move take a -2 penalty to Save Checks and a -1
Penalty to Evasion until the end of the user's next turn.
This effect applies whether the attack hits or misses.
Vicious Storm ­ Brutal Training: The Move gains the
Smite keyword. Applicable to Damaging Moves only.
Single Target Moves
Guarding Strike ­ Inspired Training: If this Move hits,
the user gains +5 Damage Reduction against the target
of the attack until the end of their next turn.
Unbalancing Blow ­ Brutal Training: Whether the
Move hits or misses, the target becomes Vulnerable
until the next time they are hit by a Damaging Attack or
one full round has passed, whichever comes first.
Reliable Attack ­ Focused Training: If the Move misses
its target, its Frequency is not spent and the user may
immediately make a Struggle Attack as a Free Action.
Cannot be applied to Moves with the Smite keyword.
Damaging Moves
Alternative Energy ­ Focused Training: Switch the
Class of the Move from Physical to Special or vice versa.
Bloodied Speed ­ Agility Training: This Move may be
used as Priority (Advanced) if the user has less than half
of their maximum Hit Points.
Double Down ­ Brutal Training: The Move gains
the Double Strike keyword. Effects and Effect-Ranges
may be triggered only once (but either roll may trigger
the effect). This may only be applied to Moves with a
Damage Base of 4 or less, and may not be applied to
Moves whose Damage Base change upon certain
conditions (such as Fury Cutter or Ice Ball) or moves
with Special-Case Damage (such as Night Shade).
Status Moves
Burst of Motivation ­ Inspired Training: After this
Move is Resolved, the user may increase any Stats with
negative Combat Stages by up to +2 Combat Stages (but
this cannot put Combat Stages above +0 CS total).
Supreme Concentration ­ Focused Training: This
Move may be used even if the user is Paralyzed, Flinched,
Enraged, or has failed their Confusion Save Check.
Double Curse ­ Agility Training: The user may target
an additional foe with this Attack. This may be applied
only to 1-Target Moves.
Signature Technique Modifications
