May 2015 Playtest
3
Backpacker
[Class] [+Speed]
Prerequisites: Traveler
Static
Effect: You gain the Skill Enhancement Edge. You then gain an instance of the Skill Stunt Edge for each of the two
Skills you chose with Skill Enhancement.
Item Mastery
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: Backpacker
Static
Effect: You learn the Moves Fling and Recycle.
Equipment Savant
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: Backpacker, Expert Survival
2 AP ­ Swift Action
Effect: Use or Equip an Item or piece of Equipment
which would normally require a Standard Action
to use or equip. You may not make an Attack with a
Weapon this way - using other Items or Equipment that
requires "Attacks" (such as Cap Cannons or Poké Balls)
is acceptable.
Hero's Journey
[Ranked 3] [+Speed]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Backpacker
Rank 2 Prerequisites: Backpacker, Adept Survival
Rank 3 Prerequisites: Backpacker, Expert Survival
Rank 4 Prerequisites: Backpacker, Expert Survival
Static
Effect: Each Rank, you may gain two Backpacker Talents
for which you qualify.
Backpacker Talents
Call to Adventure
Static
Effect: You gain the Instinctive Aptitude Edge, even if
you do not meet its prerequisites. If you already have this
Edge, gain another Edge for which you qualify. During
Combat or tense situations (never Extended Actions), if
you spend AP to add a bonus to a Skill Check, you may
add +1d6 instead of +2.
Frisk
Static
Effect: You gain the Frisk Ability.
Handyman
Static
Effect: Whenever you use an item or a non-Weapon
piece of equipment which calls for a Skill Check or has
an effect or prerequisite based on a Skill Rank, you may
substitute Survival for the used Skill. This does not affect
prerequisites for Books.
Hat Trick
Static
Effect: While wearing Head Equipment worth at least
$1000, you gain 15 Damage Reduction against Critical
Hits. This does not stack with any Damage Reduction
granted by any Head Equipment.
Movement Mastery
Static
Effect: Choose one of Art of Stealth, Athletic Initiative,
Mounted Prowess, Nimble Movement, Slippery,
Stamina, Swimmer, or Wallrunner. You gain the
chosen Edge, even if you do not meet the prerequisites.
Additionally, you may take any of these Edges in the
future as if you did meet the prerequisites.
May 2015 Playtest
4
Sole Power
Static
Effect: While wearing Feet Equipment worth at least
$1000, you do not trigger Hazards while Shifting.
However, you still trigger any Hazards that you are
standing on at the start or end of your turn. Reactive
Hazards such as Stealth Rock cannot be triggered
against you.
Wayfarer
Static
Effect: You may use your Survival Skill when making
Opposed Rolls when defending against Disarm,
Grapple, Push, and Trip Maneuvers. When wielding a
Weapon, you may use Survival instead of Combat to
determine the Damage Base of your Struggle Attacks
and to qualify for a Weapon's Moves.
Wear it Better
Prerequisites: Expert Survival
Static
Effect: While wearing Body Equipment worth at least
$1000, you gain +5 Damage Reduction. This does not
stack with any Damage Reduction granted by any Body
Equipment.
