Trainer Classes
78
Capture Specialist
[Class] [+Speed]
Prerequisites: Acrobatics, Athletics, Stealth, or Survival at Novice; Guile, or Perception at Novice
Static
Effect: You gain two Capture Techniques of your choice, found on the next page. You must meet any prerequisites
of the Technique.
Advanced Capture Techniques
[Ranked 4] [+Speed]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Capture Specialist
Rank 2 Prerequisites: Capture Specialist, any 2 Skills at
Adept Rank
Rank 3 Prerequisites: Capture Specialist, any 2 Skills at
Expert Rank
Rank 4 Prerequisites: Capture Specialist, any 3 Skills at
Expert Rank
Static
Effect: At each Rank, you gain two Capture Techniques
of your choice, found on the next page. You must meet
any prerequisites of the Technique. You may qualify
for Advanced Capture Techniques' prerequisites with
the Acrobatics, Athletics, Stealth, Survival, Guile, or
Perception Skills only.
Captured Momentum
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: Advanced Capture Techniques Rank 2
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: You successfully Capture a Pokémon
Choose One Effect:
»
» You or your Pokémon gain a +2 bonus to their next
Accuracy Roll during this combat.
»
» You subtract your highest Skill Rank out of Acrobat-
ics, Athletics, Stealth, Survival, Guile, or Perception
from your next Capture Roll during this combat.
»
» You gain 1 Temporary Action Point that disappears
after one full round.
Gotta Catch `Em All
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: Advanced Capture Techniques Rank 3
Daily x3 ­ Swift Action
Trigger: Your make a Capture Roll.
Effect: You may switch the rolled digits on your 1d100
roll. For example, if you roll a 91, that can be switched
to a 19. This does not turn a roll of 1 into a "Natural"
roll of 100.
Trainer Classes
79
Capture Skills
Static
Effect: You gain a Skill Edge for which you qualify.
It must be applied to Acrobatics, Athletics, Stealth,
Survival, Guile, or Perception. You may take Capture
Skills up to two times.
Curve Ball
Static
Effect: Whenever you hit a target with a Poké Ball, you
may deal damage as if you had hit them with a Struggle
Attack. This damage triggers before any of the Poké
Ball's functions (such as making a Capture Check,
releasing a Pokémon, etc.).
Devitalizing Throw
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: A Pokémon escapes from a Poké Ball you threw
Choose One Effect: The triggering target becomes
Slowed; the triggering target loses one Combat Stage in
a Stat of your choice; or the triggering target suffers a -3
penalty to their next Save Roll.
Fast Pitch
1 AP ­ Standard Action, Priority (Advanced)
Effect: You immediately throw a Poké Ball.
Snare
Static
Effect: You subtract -10 from Capture Rolls made
against Pokémon drawn into an encounter by Bait,
that are currently distracted by Bait, or are in a Hand
Net, Lasso, Weighted Net, or Stuck because of a Glue
Cannon.
Tools of the Trade
Static
Effect: Add +2 to all Accuracy Rolls made with Poké
Balls, Hand Nets, Lassos, Weighted Nets, and Glue
Cannons. Add +2 to Athletics Checks made when
reeling in a Pokémon with a Fishing Rod, and add +4 to
1d20 rolls made to see if a Pokémon is attracted by Bait
or a Fishing Lure.
Catch Combo
Prerequisites: 3 of Acrobatics, Athletics, Stealth,
Survival, Guile, or Perception Skills at Expert Rank
Daily ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon's attack faints a Wild Pokémon.
Effect: You may immediately throw a Poké Ball against
the triggering Wild Pokémon, and it may be Captured
even though it is knocked out. Calculate Capture Rate
as if the target had 1 HP. If the Capture Attempt fails,
the Pokémon is knocked out as normal.
False Strike
Prerequisites: 3 of Acrobatics, Athletics, Stealth,
Survival, Guile, or Perception at Expert Rank
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: You or your Pokémon's attack faints a Wild
Pokémon.
Effect: The Wild Pokémon is instead lowered to 1 Hit
Point.
Relentless Pursuit
Prerequisites: 3 of Acrobatics, Athletics, Stealth,
Survival, Guile, or Perception Skills at Expert Rank
2 AP ­ Free Action, Interrupt
Trigger: A foe attempts to run away
Effect: Before the target moves from its starting location,
one of your Pokémon on the field may immediately
Shift and use a Struggle Attack as an Interrupt. If this
attack hits, the target is Tripped.
Capture Techniques
