Trainer Classes
179
Channeler
[Class]
Prerequisites: Mystic Senses
At-Will ­ Swift Action
Target: A Pokémon.
Effect: You Channel the target Pokémon. If you attempt to Channel a Hostile Pokémon, you must make an Intuition
Check with a DC of 15 to Channel the target. You may stop Channeling a Pokémon as a Free Action at any time.
You may Channel a number of Pokémon at a time up to your Intuition Rank. If a Channeled Pokémon goes further
than 20 meters from you, they stop being Channeled.
Mechanic: While Channeling a Pokémon, it may communicate its intentions, emotions, and motivations to you
and you may communicate similarly with them; neither party may be deceitful in this exchange. You also become
aware of all of its Moves, Abilities, and Capabilities. Allied Channeled Pokémon may always attempt Intercept
Maneuvers for each other, regardless of Loyalty. If you are Fainted, you stop Channeling all Pokémon. Whenever
you Channel a Pokémon, you have a vague knowledge of what has happened in the Pokémon's past hour as if they
were your own memories.
Note: Channeler has a couple Features with the [Orders] tag. However, because they require that a Pokémon be
Channeled, which isn't League Legal, they actually aren't of any use in League Legal battles!
Shared Senses
Prerequisites: Channeler
Bind 1 AP ­ Swift Action
Target: A Channeled Pokémon
Effect: You Imprint the target for the duration of this
Feature. You receive all sensory information being
sensed by Imprinted Pokémon, and Imprinted Pokémon
are not subject to the distance limit on Channeling. If
you have Imprinted more than one Pokémon, you may
only concentrate on the senses of one Pokémon at a
time, and only choose one such Pokémon per round.
If you stop Channeling a Pokémon, they are no longer
Imprinted as well.
Battle Synchronization
[Orders]
Prerequisites: Channeler
Scene x3 ­ Standard Action
Effect: For one full round, whenever a Channeled
Pokémon successfully hits a foe, all Channeled Pokémon
gain +1 Accuracy and +1 Evasion against that foe for
the duration of this Feature.
Spirit Boost
[Orders] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Channeler
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: A Channeled Pokémon
Effect: When you use Spirit Boost, choose a Channeled
Pokémon. You may choose the target of Spirit Boost if
you wish. While Spirit Boost is Bound, the target has
one of the following effects, depending on the highest
Combat Stat of the chosen Pokémon. (In the event of a
tie, you choose which Stat to use)
»
» Attack: The target gains Bonus Damage when using
Physical attacks equal to your Intuition Rank.
»
» Defense: The target gains Damage Reduction against
Physical attacks equal to your Intuition Rank.
»
» Special Attack: The target gains gain Bonus Damage
when using Special attacks equal to your Intuition
Rank.
»
» Special Defense: The target gains Damage Reduc-
tion against Special attacks equal to your Intuition
Rank.
»
» Speed: The target gains a bonus to their Initiative
equal to your Intuition Rank.
Trainer Classes
180
Power Conduit
Prerequisites: Channeler, Adept Intuition
2 AP ­ Swift Action
Target: Channeled Pokémon
Choose One Effect:
»
» Trade all Combat Stages for a single Stat between
two Channeled Pokémon
»
» Transfer a Coat from one Channeled Pokémon to
another.
»
» Give up a use of Scene or Daily Move from one
willing Channeled Pokémon to regain use of a
Scene Move which another Channeled Pokémon
has used. This effect may only refresh a Move for
each Pokémon once per Scene.
Pain Dampening
Prerequisites: Channeler, Expert Intuition
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: A Channeled Pokémon would be Fainted by a
damaging attack
Effect: Choose any number of Channeled Pokémon,
which must include the triggering Pokémon. Instead
of resolving the attack normally, divide the damage
from the attack by the number of chosen Pokémon.
Each chosen Pokémon then loses that many Hit Points.
For each chosen Pokémon that Resists or is Immune
to the Type of the triggering attack, subtract your
Intuition Rank from the damage of the attack before all
calculations.
Soothing Connection
Prerequisites: Pain Dampening, Master Intuition
Daily x2 ­ Standard Action
Target: Channeled Pokémon
Effect: Distribute 5 points in any way among Pokémon
you are Channeling. For each point you assign to a
Channeled Pokémon, they gain a Tick of Hit Points.
