Trainer Classes
93
Cheerleader
[Class]
Prerequisites: Inspired Training, Novice Charm
X AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: You use Orders
Effect: Choose Cheered, Excited, or Motivated. All allies affected by the triggering effect gain the chosen condition.
This Feature costs 0 AP if the triggering effect affects only one ally, and costs 1 AP if it affects two or more.
Mechanic: Cheerleader's Features can deliver several beneficial conditions on their allies ­ Cheered, Excited, or
Motivated. Targets can have more than once "instance" of the same condition, but for Cheered and Excited only
one instance may be activated per trigger (that is to say, you can't add +10 Damage Reduction against one attack
using Excited, and you can't use Cheered to roll four times for the same Save Check!)
»
» Cheered ­ Pokémon or Trainers may give up the Cheered condition when making a Save Check to roll twice,
and take the best result.
»
» Excited ­ Pokémon or Trainers may give up the Excited condition when hit by a Damaging Attack to gain +5
Damage Reduction against that attack.
»
» Motivated ­ Pokémon or Trainers may give up the Motivated condition as a Free Action to increase a Combat
Stage that is below its Default Value (usually 0 CS) by +1 CS.
Cheer Brigade
Prerequisites: Cheerleader
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Pokémon with at least 2 Tutor Points
remaining
Effect: Your Pokémon loses 2 Tutor Points and gains the
Friend Guard Ability.
Gleeful Interference
Prerequisites: Cheer Brigade, Adept Charm
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon with the Friend Guard Ability
hits a foe with a damaging attack
Effect: The triggering foe gains a -2 penalty to Accuracy
for one full Round.
Inspirational Support
Prerequisites: Cheer Brigade, Adept Charm
Static
Effect: You may trigger Cheerleader as a Free Action
when your Pokémon with Friend Guard activate an
Ability or Status Move that affects only allies.
Note: When considering effects that could trigger
Cheerleader this way, aside from the obvious Moves like
Helping Hand and Abilities like Plus and Minus, think
about Blessings, Coats, etc too!
Moment of Action
[Orders]
Prerequisites: Cheerleader
At-Will ­ Standard Action
Target: Up to two Allied Trainers
Effect: Each target gains 1 Temporary Action Point.
These Action Points disappear after one full Round.
Go, Fight, Win!
[Orders]
Prerequisites: Moment of Action, Expert Charm
At-Will ­ Standard Action + Swift Action
Effect: Choose and perform one of the cheers below.
You may perform each Cheer only once per Scene.
»
» Show Your Best!: Choose Defense or Special
Defense. All allies on the field gain +1 Combat Stage
in the Chosen Stat and become Motivated.
»
» Don't Stop Now!: All allies on the field gain
Temporary Hit Points equal to your Charm Rank
and become Excited.
»
» I Believe In You!: All allies on the field gain a +2
bonus to Evasion for one full Round, and become
Cheered.
Trainer Classes
94
Keep Fighting!
Prerequisites: 5 Cheerleader Features, Master Charm
Daily x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon or an Ally Trainer with over 1
Hit Point is reduced to 0 Hit Points or lower
Effect: That Ally's Hit Point count is reduced to 1
instead, and then gains Temporary Hit Points equal to
your Charm Rank doubled.
