Trainer Classes
131
Chef
[Class]
Prerequisites: Basic Cooking, Novice Intuition
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Effect: You may use any Chef Recipe for which you qualify.
Hits the Spot
Prerequisites: Chef
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: You or your Pokémon trade in a Digestion Buff
Effect: The target gains Temporary Hit Points equal
to your Intuition Rank doubled. These Temporary Hit
Points stack from any Temporary Hit Points granted
by Accentuated Taste, the Digestion Buff or by the
Lunchbox Ability.
Culinary Appreciation
Prerequisites: Chef
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Pokémon with at least 2 Tutor Points
remaining
Effect: The target loses 2 Tutor Points and gains the
Gluttony Ability.
Accentuated Taste
Prerequisites: Chef, Adept Intuition
Static
Effect: Whenever you create a Snack with a Chef Feature,
you may assign it a Taste chosen from Salty, Sour, Spicy,
Dry, and Sweet. Tasty Snacks must be assigned their
corresponding Taste. Whenever a Pokémon trades in a
Digestion Buff from a Snack with an assigned Taste they
do not dislike, they gain the following bonuses:
»
» Salty: The user gains 5 Temporary Hit Points.
This stacks with any Temporary Hit Points gained
through Chef Features, the Lunchbox Ability, and
the Digestion Buff.
»
» Spicy: Increase the user's Critical Hit Range by 1.
»
» Sour: Increase the user's Evasion against damaging
attacks by 1.
»
» Dry: Increase the user's Effect Range of all attacks
by 1.
»
» Bitter: The user gets a +1 Bonus to all Save Checks.
»
» Sweet: Increase the user's Initiative by 5.
Complex Aftertaste
Prerequisites: Accentuated Taste
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: You or an ally trades in a Digestion Buff from
an item with a Taste
Effect: The target gains a Digestion Buff according to
the Taste of the Snack granting the Buff. This Digestion
Buff matches that of the corresponding basic Tasty
Snack recipe.
Dietician
Prerequisites: Chef, Expert Intuition
Static
Effect: Your Pokemon can benefit from a maximum of
7 Vitamins.
Dumplings
Prerequisites: 4 Chef Features, Master Intuition
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Ingredient 1: Leftovers, Preserves, or a Snack made
with Chef
Ingredient 2: Leftovers or Preserves
Effect: You mix the two ingredients into one Snack that
has the same effect as its ingredients. The two ingredients
must be different items.
Trainer Classes
132
Tasty Snacks
Prerequisites: Chef
Cost: $100
Effect: You create a Salty Surprise, Spicy Wrap, Sour
Candy, Dry Wafer, Bitter Treat, or Sweet Confection.
Salty Surprise
Effect: The user may trade in this Snack's Digestion
Buff when being hit by an attack to gain 5 Temporary
Hit Points. If the user likes Salty Flavors, they gain 10
Temporary Hit Points Instead. If the user dislikes Salty
Food, they become Enraged.
Spicy Wrap
Effect: The user may trade in this Snack's Digestion Buff
when making a Physical attack to deal +5 additional
Damage. If the user prefers Spicy Food, it deals +10
additional Damage instead. If the user dislikes Spicy
Food, they become Enraged.
Sour Candy
Effect: The user may trade in this Snack's Digestion Buff
when being hit by a Physical Attack to increase their
Damage Reduction by +5 against that attack. If the user
prefers Sour Food, they gain +10 Damage Reduction
instead. If the user dislikes Sour Food, they become
Enraged.
Dry Wafer
Effect: The user may trade in this Snack's Digestion Buff
when making a Special attack to deal +5 additional
Damage. If the user prefers Dry Food, it deals +10
additional Damage instead. If the user dislikes Dry
Food, they become Enraged.
Bitter Treat
Effect: The user may trade in this Snack's Digestion
Buff when being hit by a Special Attack to increase their
Damage Reduction by +5 against that attack. If the user
prefers Bitter Food, they gain +10 Damage Reduction
instead. If the user dislikes Bitter Food, they become
Enraged.
Sweet Confection
Effect: The user may trade in this Snack's Digestion Buff
to gain +4 Evasion until the end of their next turn. If the
user prefers Sweet Food, they gain +4 Accuracy as well.
If the user dislikes Sweet Food, they become Enraged.
Meal Planner
Prerequisites: Chef
Effect: You may create the following items, based on
your Intuition Rank
»
» Novice: "Enriched Water" for $40
»
» Adept: "Super Soda Pop" for $65
»
» Expert: "Sparkling Lemonade" for $125
»
» Master: "MooMoo Milk" for $250
Hearty Meal
Prerequisites: Hits the Spot
Ingredients: x2 Tiny Mushrooms; or x1 Big Mushroom;
or x1 Balm Mushroom, or x2 Power Herbs, White
Herbs, or Mental Herbs
Effect: You create up to five Hearty Meals, which may
be consumed by Trainers as an Extended Action. When
consumed, that Trainer gains +2 to their Max AP until
the end of their next extended rest. A Trainer may only
be under the effect of one Hearty Meal at a time. Hearty
Meals not consumed within 20 minutes of being created
lose all flavor and all effect.
Bait Mixer
Prerequisites: Culinary Appreciation
Cost: $150 or Honey.
Effect: You may create Bait. For $50 more, you may
create Bait as Super Bait or Vile Bait instead. Super Bait
works like regular Bait, but you may add your Intuition
Rank to 1d20 Rolls made to attract Pokémon. Vile Bait
works like regular Bait, but Pokémon that eat it are
Poisoned.
Preserves
Prerequisites: Accentuated Taste
Ingredients: $50, any Berry, Herb, or Mushroom
Effect: The user creates x2 Units of Preserves from the
Berry, Herb, or Mushroom. Preserves have the same
effect as the consumable from which they were made.
Leftovers
Prerequisites: Complex Aftertaste
Cost: $100
Effect: You create Leftovers.
Vitamins
Prerequisites: Dietician
Effect: You create an HP Up, Protein, Iron, Calcium,
Zinc, or Carbos for $2450, or Stat Suppressants for
$200.
Chef Recipes
