Trainer Classes
134
Chronicler
[Class]
Prerequisites: Novice Perception
1 AP ­ Swift Action, Interrupt
Target: A Pokémon, Trainer, Move, or Location.
Effect: You make Record of the target. Records can be placed in an Archive as an Extended Action. When you take
Chronicler, you gain one Archive.
Archives:
Profile Archive: You may place Records of Pokémon and Trainers in your Profile Archive. You gain a +2 bonus
to Charm, Guile, Command, Intimidate, and Intuition Checks targeting Pokémon and Trainers in your Profile
Archive.
Technique Archive: You may place Records of Moves in your Technique Archive. You and your Pokémon gain +2
Evasion against Moves in your Technique Archives.
Travel Archive: You may place Records of Locations in your Travel Archive. When you gain Travel Archive,
choose Keen Eye or Perception. While you are in a Location in your Travel Archive, you have the Chosen Ability
and gain a +2 bonus to Perception Checks to notice the environment.
Archival Training
[Ranked 2]
All Rank Prerequisites: Chronicler
Static
Effect: Each Rank, you gain an Archive.
Archive Tutor
Prerequisites: Technique Archive, Expert Perception
Daily ­ Extended Action
Target: A Pokémon with 2 Tutor Points.
Effect: Select a Record in your Technique Archive that
is of a Move that the target can learn by Level Up, TM
or by Move Tutor. The target learns the Move and loses
2 Tutor Points. You can target someone else's Pokémon
only once with Archive Tutor; you may target your own
Pokémon any number of times with Archive Tutor, but
they must still abide by any Move Pool Limitations (ie:
no more than 3 of the user's Move Pool can come from
TMs or Tutor Moves).
Targeted Profiling
[Orders]
Prerequisites: Profile Archive, Expert Perception
2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Pokémon
Effect: On the target's next turn, they act as if they
had the Mold Breaker Ability against all Pokémon and
Trainers in your Profile Archive and gains a +2 bonus to
Accuracy Rolls against these targets.
Observation Party
Prerequisites: Travel Archive, Adept Perception
Static
Effect: While they are in a Location in your Travel
Archive, your Pokémon have the Ability you chose
when gaining Travel Archive and gain a +2 bonus to
Perception Checks to notice the environment.
Trainer Classes
135
Cinematic Analysis
Prerequisites: 4 Chronicler Features, Master Perception
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Effect: You analyze a Record in one of your Archives.
Cinematic Analysis's effect depends on the Archive the
Record is in. Each of these effects may only be used
once per Scene.
Character Study ­ Profile Archive: You may trigger
Character Study when you or an ally makes a Charm,
Command, Guile, Intimidate, or Intuition Check
targeting the subject of your Record. Make a Perception
Check and substitute the triggering Skill Check with the
result.
Recreation ­ Technique Archive: Recreation may be
triggered as your Pokémon gains Initiative. Select a
Record of a Move in your Technique Archive that your
Pokémon can learn by Level Up, TM, or Move Tutor.
Your Pokémon may perform that Move as if it was on
its Move List. You may select a specific Move only once
per day.
Situational Awareness ­ Travel Archive: You may only
use Situational Awareness if you analyze a Record of
your current Location. When used this way, you may
activate it as an Interrupt. Choose an ally; that ally may
take their next action as Priority (Advanced).
