Trainer Classes
83
Coordinator
[Class]
Prerequisites: Grace, Novice Charm, Command, Guile, Intimidate, or Intuition
At-Will ­ Free Action
Effect: Your Pokémon may reroll a single Appeal Roll or Damage Roll. This Ability may be used only once per
Contest, and once per Pokémon per Scene.
Decisive Director
[Orders]
Prerequisites: Coordinator
At-Will ­ Standard Action
Target: A Pokémon
Effect: Add or subtract X from the target's Initiative
until the end of your next turn. X is equal to your Charm
Rank doubled.
Adaptable Performance
Prerequisites: Coordinator
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon's Turn to use a Move in a
Contest
Effect: Choose two of your Pokémon's Moves. Your
Pokémon may perform your Contest Move as if had the
Contest Typing of one of your chosen Moves, and had
the effects of the other. You may not use either move on
the next round of the contest. This effect may be used
once per Contest.
Flexible Preparations
Prerequisites: Adaptable Performance, Adept Charm,
Command, Guile, Intimidate, or Intuition
Daily ­ Extended Action
Target: A Pokémon that has Contest Stats from Poffins
Effect: The target may reallocate up to 2d6 of Poffin-
Derived Contest Stats from one Contest Stat to another.
This effect lasts until the end of the day.
Innovation
Prerequisites: Adaptable Performance
Daily ­ Extended Action
Target: A Pokémon with at least 1 Tutor Point.
Effect: The target loses 1 Tutor Point, and then learns a
Move created with Innovation. See the next section for
details on creating Moves for this Feature. A Pokémon
may only have one Move created by Innovation at a
time.
Nuanced Performance
Prerequisites: Coordinator, Expert Charm, Command,
Guile, Intimidate, or Intuition
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon miss all targets with a Move
Effect: That Move's Frequency is not expended. This
does not work with Moves that may fail to activate, such
as moves with the Execute keyword.
Reliable Performance
Prerequisites: Nuanced Performance, Master Charm,
Command, Guile, Intimidate, or Intuition
2 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon makes an Appeal Roll, Accuracy
Check, or Skill Check
Effect: For appeal rolls, instead of making the Appeal
Roll, you gain 1 Appeal Point for each Dice you would
have rolled. For Accuracy Checks, act as if you had rolled
a 10. For Skill Checks, multiply 3.5 by your Pokémon's
Skill Rank, and use the resulting number as the result of
your roll, rounded down. For all rolls, add or subtract
any modifiers as normal.
Trainer Classes
84
Innovation Moves
The Coordinator's "Innovation" Feature lets the Coordinator create new Moves for their Pokémon. These Moves
can serve to fill voids in Move Lists for both Battles and Contests and provide utility.
To create a Move, first choose a Contest Type. This affects the Move's effects and of course its role in Contests.
Next choose a Contest Effect. Look at the "Contest Effects" section (page 266) under "Contests" for the full list.
Pick one. That's right, any of them. This determines what the Move does during a Contest, of course.
Third, choose one of the four templates below. This determines the Move's effects in Battle. These are modified by
the Contest Type of the Move. Remember, Cool is associated with Attack, Tough with Defense, Beauty with Special
Attack, Smart with Special Defense, and Cute with Speed.
And finally, name your Move! This is the best part!
Template #1
Type: Normal
Frequency: Scene
AC: None
Class: Status
Range: Self
Effect: The user generates 3 Contest Boons. These may
be used as a Swift Action on their turn to gain one of the
effects below, based on this Move's Contest Type.
»
» Beauty: Use when declaring an attack (before
Accuracy Roll) to gain a +3 bonus to Effect Range
for that attack.
»
» Cool: Use when declaring an attack (before
Accuracy Roll) to gain a +3 bonus to Critical Hit
Range for that attack.
»
» Cute: Use during your turn to gain +3 Evasion for
one full round.
»
» Smart: Use when declaring an attack (before
Accuracy Roll) to gain a +3 bonus to Accuracy for
that attack.
»
» Tough: Use at the start of a turn to avoid all loss
of Hit Points from Status Afflictions, Weather, and
Recoil for that turn.
Template #2
Type: Normal
Frequency: Scene x2
AC: None
Class: Status
Range: 6, 1 Target
Effect: The target has the Stat associated with this Move's
Contest Type lowered by -2 Combat Stages. This Move
cannot miss.
Template #3
Type: Varies
Frequency: EOT
AC: Varies
Class: Varies
Range: Varies, Spirit Surge
Effect: Make a Struggle Attack, increasing the damage
roll by +5. Follow all other normal rules for making
Struggle attacks, including any modifications from
capabilities, features, or special effects. On 18+, the
user's Stat associated with the Contest Type of this Move
is raised by +1 Combat Stage. This Move's Effect Range
is extended by +1 for every two Contest Dice the user
has that matches this Move's Contest Type.
Template #4
Type: Normal
Frequency: Scene
AC: None
Class: Status
Range: Burst 2
Effect: All allies in the Burst besides the user gain +1
Combat Stage in the Stat associated with the Contest
Type of this Move.
