Trainer Classes
157
Dancer
[Class] [+Speed]
Prerequisites: Novice Acrobatics; Novice Athletics or Charm
Static
Effect: Choose Spinning Dance or Own Tempo. You gain the chosen Ability.
Dance Form
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: Dancer
Static
Effect: Create and learn two Dance Moves, plus one more
for each other Dancer Feature you have. Whenever you
gain another Dancer Feature, create and learn another
Dance Move.
Beguiling Dance
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: Dance Form
Static
Effect: When creating Dance Moves, you can choose to
create a Dance Move that has Range: 4, 1 Target, AC
3, and lowers a Combat Stat (chosen at creation) by
-2 Combat Stages. This Move is otherwise the same as
other Dance Moves you could create except that Dance
Moves created with this template have the Contest
Effect Excitement instead of Get Ready!.
Dance Practice
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: Dancer
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Pokémon with at least 2 Tutor Points
Effect: The target loses 2 Tutor Points and gains your
choice of Spinning Dance or Own Tempo. Dance
Practice may target a Pokémon only once.
Choreographer
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: Dance Form; Adept Acrobatics, Athletics,
or Charm
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Pokémon with at least 2 Tutor Points
Effect: The target loses 2 Tutor Point and learns a Dance
Move created by yourself. Choreographer may target a
Pokémon multiple times.
Power Pirouette
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: Dance Form; Expert Acrobatics, Athlet-
ics, or Charm
Scene x2 ­ Swift Action
Trigger: You perform a Dance Move
Effect: Choose one effect:
»
» All adjacent targets are Confused.
»
» You gain +1 Combat Stage to a Stat of your choice
not raised by the triggering Move.
»
» Destroy all Hazards within 5 meters, and remove
Leech Seed, Trapped, and Stuck from yourself.
Passing Waltz
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: Dance Practice; Master Acrobatics, Ath-
letics, or Charm
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: You or one of your Pokémon with Own Tempo
or Spinning Dance uses a Dance Move
Effect: Choose an ally within 3 meters of the triggering
target. That ally gains Combat Stages from the triggering
Move instead of the user.
Mechanic ­ Dance Moves: Dance Moves you create with the Dance Form Feature
look like the Move on the right. First, name the Dance Move whatever you like.
Secondly, choose two Combat Stage gains for the effect. This may either be +2
Combat Stages to a single Stat, like Swords Dance, or +1 Combat Stage to two
different Stats, like Dragon Dance. Once chosen, this cannot be changed. Dragon
Dance, Quiver Dance, and Swords Dance count as Dance Moves for the purposes
of Dancer Features as well. A Dance Move's Contest Type must be chosen from a
Contest Type associated with a Stat that the Dance Move affects. Cool is associated
with Attack, Tough is associated with Defense, Beauty is associated with Special
Attack, Smart is associated with Special Defense, and Cute is associated with Speed.
Name
Type: Normal
Frequency: EOT
AC: None
Class: Status
Range: Self
Effect:
Contest Type:
Contest Effect: Get Ready!
