Trainer Classes
96
Duelist
[Class]
Prerequisites: Focused Training, Novice Focus
At-Will ­ Swift Action
Target: A Pokémon or Trainer
Effect: The Foe becomes Tagged; or if the foe is already Tagged, the foe loses the Tag. Only one foe can be Tagged
this way at a time. If a new Foe is Tagged, all other Tags are lost.
Your Pokémon under the effects of Focused Training gain half their Momentum (rounded up) as a Bonus to
Accuracy and Evasion against Tagged Foes, but as long as a Foe is Tagged, they do not benefit from Focused
Training's Accuracy Bonus against other foes.
Mechanic ­ Momentum:
»
» Your Pokémon begins each Scene with 0 Momentum.
»
» At the end of each Combat round, your Pokémon gains +1 Momentum.
»
» Whenever your Pokémon hits a Tagged foe, they gain +1 Momentum.
»
» Your Pokémon has a maximum of 6 Momentum. So use a d6 to track it.
»
» All Momentum is lost when your Pokémon Faints, your Pokémon is recalled, or combat ends.
Expend Momentum
[Orders]
Prerequisites: Duelist
At-Will ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Pokémon under the effects of Focused
Training
Effect: Apply one of the following effects on the target
by spending that much Momentum.
»
» Spend 1 Momentum: Your Pokémon regains use of
a EOT Frequency Move.
»
» Spend 2 Momentum: Your Pokémon automatically
rolls an 11 on one d20 Roll of your choice on their
next turn.
»
» Spend 3 Momentum: Your Pokémon regains a use
of Scene Frequency Move. May be chosen only once
per Scene per Pokémon.
Effective Methods
Prerequisites: Duelist
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Pokémon with at least 2 Tutor Points
remaining
Effect: Your Pokémon loses 2 Tutor Points and gains
your choice of the Exploit or Tolerance Ability. You may
only target a Pokémon once with Effective Methods.
Directed Focus
Prerequisites: Effective Methods
Static
Effect: Whenever your Pokémon with the Exploit or
Tolerance Ability are targeted by an [Order], deal Super-
Effective Damage, or take Super-Effective Damage, they
gain +1 Momentum after all effects of the Move or
Order are resolved.
Type Methodology
Prerequisites: Effective Methods, Adept Focus
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: See Effect
Effect: Effects depend on whether your Pokémon has
the Tolerance or Exploit ability.
»
» Whenever your Pokémon with Tolerance takes
Super-Effective damage from a Tagged foe, your
Pokémon may lose 2 Momentum to Resist that
attack one step.
»
» Whenever your Pokémon with Exploit deals
Resisted damage to a Tagged foe, your Pokémon
may lose 2 Momentum to increase the effectiveness
of the attack one step.
Trainer Classes
97
Duelist's Manual
[Orders]
Prerequisites: Expend Momentum, Effective Methods,
Expert Focus
2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Pokémon under the effects of Focused
Training
Effect: Apply one of the following effects. To choose
an effect, your Pokémon must have a certain amount
of Momentum. (Duelist's Manual does not spend
Momentum).
»
» 1 Momentum: Your Pokémon doubles their
bonuses from Tolerance or Exploit until the end
of their next turn and may change their Tolerance
Ability into Exploit, or vice versa, until the end of
their next turn.
»
» 2 Momentum: Your Pokémon's next Pass, Cone,
Close Blast, or Burst attack becomes a single target
Melee attack, or their next Line or Ranged Blast
attack becomes a single target Ranged attack. If this
attack hits, the target becomes Vulnerable for one
full round and has their Initiative set to 0 until the
end of their next turn.
»
» 3 Momentum: Your Pokémon may act while
ignoring the Confused, Rage, Infatuation, and
Suppressed Volatile Status on their next turn as long
as they attempt to attack a Tagged foe. May only be
used once per Scene per Pokémon.
Seize The Moment
Prerequisites: Duelist, Master Focus
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon would gain Momentum while
already at 6 Momentum
Effect: Your Pokémon loses 6 Momentum, and then
gains +1 Momentum. Your Pokémon may immediately
make an attack as an Interrupt, but this attack must
target only a Tagged Foe. If the attack misses, it still
deals damage as if it had the Smite keyword. If the
attack hits, it's automatically a Critical Hit. If it would
have already been a Critical Hit, your Pokémon gains
Hit Points equal to half of its maximum Hit Points. May
be used only once per Scene per Pokémon .
