Trainer Classes
99
Enduring Soul
[Class]
Prerequisites: Novice Athletics and Focus
Static
Effect: You may add to your Pokémon's HP stat when they level up, ignoring Base Relation, and you do not need
to "correct" Stats due to this inflated HP.
Staying Power
Prerequisites: Enduring Soul
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon Takes a Breather
Effect: Your Pokémon may "Take a Breather" even if
it is Confused or Enraged, and it does not Trip or have
to Shift away from enemies as part of the action. You
may choose whether or not your Pokémon resets their
Combat Stages to default.
Shrug Off
Prerequisites: Staying Power
Static
Effect: Once per day, each of your Pokémon may spend
a Shift Action to remove 1 Injury from themselves; this
may also be activated as a Free Action whenever your
Pokémon Take a Breather.
Awareness
Prerequisites: Enduring Soul, 3 Pokémon with a
Defensive Ability*
Static
Effect: Your Pokémon add +2 to all Save Checks.
Resilience
Prerequisites: Awareness, Expert Athletics or Focus
2 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon is hit by a Critical Hit or gains a
Status Affliction (or both)
Effect: Your Pokémon does not gain a Status Affliction,
and the triggering attack does damage as if it was not a
Critical Hit. Resilience may only be used once per target
per Scene.
Not Yet!
Prerequisites: Enduring Soul, Expert Athletics or Focus
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon is Fainted, but is not at less than
-100% Hit Points.
Effect: Before fainting, the targeted Pokémon gains an
Injury, and may then use a Move as an Interrupt. When
the Move is resolved, the Pokémon then immediately
faints. This consumes a Pokémon turn as normal. This
cannot be used with the Moves Explosion, Pain Split, or
Self-Destruct.
Vim and Vigor
Prerequisites: Shrug Off, Master Athletics or Focus
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Pokémon with at least 2 Tutor Points
Effect: The target loses 2 Tutor Points, and gains the
Vigor Ability.
