Trainer Classes
137
Fashionista
[Class]
Prerequisites: Two of Charm, Command, Guile, Intimidate, or Intuition at Novice
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Effect: You may craft any Fashionista Recipe for which you qualify.
Special: When you take Fashionista, choose two of Charm, Command, Guile, Intimidate, or Intuition to become
your Fashionista Skills. The Skills you choose must be at Novice Rank or higher.
Dashing Makeover
Prerequisites: Fashionista
Bind 2 AP ­ Extended Action
Target: A Trainer or Pokémon
Effect: When you activate Dashing Makeover, choose
one Equipment or Held Item you can create. While
this Feature is Bound, the target gains the effects of the
chosen item, as long as they would normally be able to
equip it (ex: Trainers cannot equip Incense Items).They
do not need to take up an Equipment or Held Item slot
to gain this benefit. A target may only be affected by one
instance of Dashing Makeover at a time.
Style is Eternal
Prerequisites: Fashionista
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon is Disarmed or would have
their Held Item removed by another effect such as Thief
or Covet
Effect: Your Pokémon instead retains their Held Item.
Style is Eternal may only be used once per Scene per
Pokémon.
Accessorize
Prerequisites: Dashing Makeover, one Fashionista Skill
at Adept
Static
Effect: You may wear and benefit from two Accessory
Slot Items at once. The two items must be of different
types and must not share an effect. For example, a Fire
Brace cannot be paired with another Fire Brace or a Fire
Plate, but it could be paired with an Ice Brace, a Fire
Booster, or a Stat Booster.
Parfumier
Prerequisites: Fashionista, one Fashionista Skill at
Expert
Static
Effect: Whenever you create an Incense Held Item,
choose Sweet Scent or Aromatic Mist. While your
Pokémon is holding that Incense Item in an active Held
Item slot, they add the chosen Move to their Move List.
Versatile Wardrobe
Prerequisites: Fashionista, two Fashionista Skills at
Adept
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Pokémon with at least 2 Tutor Points
remaining
Effect: The target loses 2 Tutor Points and then becomes
chic. Chic Pokémon gain two extra Held Item slots with
which they can carry Held Items. However, the items in
these slots have no effect and are not treated as equipped.
As a Swift Action on their turn, Chic Pokémon may
swap a currently active Held Item with an item stored in
these slots. Chic Pokémon may not carry multiple items
of the same type or with repeated effects.
Note: A Chic Pokémon does not become Suppressed
until they switch a Choice Item into their active Held
Item slot, but even if they then switch the Choice Item
out, they remain Suppressed for the remainder of
combat. A Mega-Evolved Chic Pokémon remains Mega-
Evolved even if they switch their active Held Item.
Dress to Impress
[Orders]
Prerequisites: Versatile Wardrobe, two Fashionista
Skills at Expert
Scene x2 ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Chic Pokémon
Effect: Your Pokémon gains the effect of all items in
extra slots granted by Versatile Wardrobe for one full
round. Dress to Impress may only target a Pokémon
once per Scene.
Trainer Classes
138
Contest Trends
Prerequisites: Fashionista
Effect: You can create Contest Accessories for $750,
Contest Fashion Items for $500, and Fancy Clothes for
$2500.
Basic Fashion
Prerequisites: Fashionista
Cost: $500
Effect: You create one of the Basic Fashion Items below
for which you have the chosen Fashionista Skill. These
are Accessory Slot Items and may be used as Held
Items by Pokémon.
Adorable Fashion
Fashionista Skill: Charm
Effect: The holder may activate this item once a Scene
as a Free Action to gain +2 Evasion for one full round.
Elegant Fashion
Fashionista Skill: Intuition
Effect: The holder may activate this item once a Scene
as a Free Action when losing Combat Stages from a
foe's effect to instead not lose those Combat Stages.
Rad Fashion
Fashionista Skill: Command
Effect: The holder may activate this item once a Scene
as a Free Action to gain a +4 bonus to a single Save
Check.
Rough Fashion
Fashionista Skill: Intimidate
Effect: The holder may activate this item once a Scene
as a Free Action to cause a foe within 5 meters to take a
-2 penalty to all rolls for one full round.
Slick Fashion
Fashionista Skill: Guile
Effect: The holder may activate this item once a
Scene as a Free Action when provoking an Attack of
Opportunity to instead not provoke one.
Practical Fashion
Prerequisites: Dashing Makeover
Effect: You can create Go-Goggles, Safety Goggles, or
Winter Cloaks for $750.
Focused Fashion
Prerequisites: Style is Eternal
Effect: You can create Focus Bands and Focus Sashes
for $2000.
Incense Maker
Prerequisites: Parfumier
Effect: You can create Lax Incense for $1000, Luck
Incense for $900, and Full Incense for $450.
Fashionista Recipes
