Sept 2015 Playtest
6
Medic
Prerequisites: Novice Medicine Education
Static
Effect: You are always considered to have access to a First Aid Manual and a Combat Medic's Primer, and are
always considered to be Binding their Rank 1 Effects without actually using any AP.
Front Line Healer
Prerequisites: Medic
Static
Effect: When you apply a Restorative, you gain +5
Damage Reduction for 1 full round. Whenever you use
Combat Medic's Primer's Rank 2 effect, you may apply
the same effect on yourself. Damage Reduction from
this Feature does not stack with itself.
Medical Techniques
Prerequisites: Medic, Adept Medicine Education
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: You apply a Restorative Item
Effect: The target of the triggering action gains a Tick
of Hit Points, plus an additional amount of Hit Points
equal to your Medicine Education Rank.
I'm a Doctor
[Ranked 2] [Gift]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Medic
Rank 2 Prerequisites: Medic, Adept Medicine
Education
Static
Effect: Each Rank, you gain one of Field Clinic or Medic
Training and one of Nurse or First Aid Expertise.
Proper Care
Prerequisites: I'm a Doctor, Field Clinic, Expert
Medicine Education
Static
Effect: You gain additional bonuses to using Restoratives
and Features while in a Field Clinic, Poke Center,
Hospital, or other dedicated healing space that lets you
access supplies.
»
» When you trigger First Aid Expertise here, the
injury that is Removed does not count towards the
total number of Injuries that may be removed each
day.
»
» When you trigger Nurse here, Bandages cure 1
Injury after three hours, in addition the injury
healed after 6 hours.
»
» All Restoratives heal an additional 5 Hit Points. This
stacks with the bonus granted by Field Clinic.
Stay With Us!
Prerequisites: Front Line Healer, Master Medicine
Education
Daily x3 ­ Full Action, Reaction
Trigger: An Ally is hit by an attack
Effect: You must be able to Shift to your target to use
this Feature. If you can, you immediately do so, and may
apply a Potion, Super Potion, Hyper Potion, Energy
Powder, or Energy Root. Though damage, injuries, and
all other effects of the triggering attack are finalized
before this Feature is applied, do not determine if the
target has been Fainted, Killed, or gained Injuries from
Hit Point Markers until after the effects of the action
chosen through use of this Feature has been resolved.
