Trainer Classes
88
Mentor
[Class]
Prerequisites: Two of Charm, Intimidate, Intuition, or Pokémon Education at Novice Rank
Daily x3 ­ Extended Action
Target: A Pokémon with at least 1 Tutor Point remaining
Effect: The target loses 1 Tutor Point, and then learns a move from its tutor list marked with a (N), or any move on
its level-up list learned at X Level or lower, where X is the target's current Level plus the sum of your Mentor Skill
Ranks. Note that despite being Tutored, these Moves count as if they were "natural" for organizational purposes.
Special: When you take Mentor, choose two of Charm, Intimidate, Intuition, and Pokémon Education to become
your Mentor Skills. The Skills you choose must be at Novice Rank or higher.
Lessons
Prerequisites: Mentor
Daily x3 ­ Extended Action
Effect: You may perform any Mentor Lesson for which
you qualify.
Expand Horizons
Prerequisites: Mentor
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Pokémon
Effect: Your Pokémon gains 3 Tutor Points. A Pokémon
may be targeted by Expand Horizons only once.
Guidance
Prerequisites: Mentor
Static
Effect: Your Pokémon's base Move List Limit is increased
by +1 (Reminder: The default Move List Limit is 6).
Move Tutor
Prerequisites: Mentor, one Mentor Skill at Expert Rank
Daily ­ Extended Action
Target: A Pokémon with at least 2 Tutor Points.
Effect: The target loses 2 Tutor Points, and learns any
move from its Tutor List.
Egg Tutor
Prerequisites: Move Tutor
Daily ­ Extended Action
Target: A Pokémon with at least 2 Tutor Points.
Effect: The target loses 2 Tutor Points, and learns any
Move from its Egg Move List. A Pokémon may be
targeted by Egg Tutor only one time.
Lifelong Learning
Prerequisites: Move Tutor, one Mentor Skill at Master
Rank
Static
Effect: Your Pokémon may have up to 4 Moves from
their Move List come from TMs or Move Tutors.
Trainer Classes
89
Changing Viewpoints
Prerequisites: Mentor, Intuition as a Mentor Skill
Target: A Pokémon with at least 1 Tutor Point.
Effect: The target loses a Tutor Point, and you may
change the target's Nature to any other Nature which
either raises the same Stat as its current nature, or lowers
the same Stat as its current Nature.
Empowered Development
Prerequisites: Mentor, Charm as a Mentor Skill
Target: A Pokémon with at least 1 Tutor Point
Effect: The target loses 1 Tutor Point, and gains any
three of the following Poké Edges: Skill Improvement,
Advanced Mobility, or Capability Training. A Pokémon
may be targeted only once by Empowered Development.
The target may gain Poké Edges this way even if they
do not meet the prerequisites, however, they must still
follow other limitations; Advanced Mobility can only
improve a Movement Capability once, for example.
Corrective Learning
Prerequisites: Mentor, Intimidate as a Mentor Skill
Target: A Pokémon that has spent Tutor Points on a
Poké Edge or a Feature's effect
Effect: The target loses one effect gained from a Poké
Edge or Feature and refunds all Tutor Points spent on it.
Versatile Teachings
Prerequisites: Mentor, Pokémon Education as a Mentor
Skill
Target: A Pokémon with at least 1 Tutor Point
Effect: The target loses 1 Tutor Point and may exchange
one of its Basic Abilities for any other of its species'
Basic Abilities or one of its Advanced Abilities for any
of its species' Basic or Advanced Abilities.
Note: You may NOT activate Versatile Teachings to reroll
Abilities that require a roll to determine characteristics,
such as Serpent's Mark and Color Theory.
Mentor Lessons
