Trainer Classes
186
Oracle
[Class] [+Special Defense]
Prerequisites: Mystic Senses, Novice Perception
Static
Effect: You gain the Pickup Ability.
Divination
[+Special Defense]
Prerequisites: Oracle
Daily x3 ­ Extended Action
Effect: You may perform an Augury or Scrying.
Augury
Target: Self
Effect: The user has a vision, dream, or similar that may
depict past, present, or future events. The clarity of the
dream may vary, as well as the user's ability to remember
it. See the next page for more details.
Scrying
Target: An item you are touching, or your current
location
Effect: You see visions of what has happened to the target
over the last 24 hours. The images may be jumbled or
unclear, to the discretion of your GM. See the next page
for more details.
Unveiled Sight
[+Special Defense]
Prerequisites: Oracle
Static
Effect: You can see through Illusions. This means
you can spot Illusions from the Illusionist capability,
Illusion Ability, and Genjutsu Feature as being fake.
You are immune to Moves with the Illusion keyword,
Double Team cannot be activated against you, and you
bypass Substitutes. As a Standard Action, you can create
a Burst 4, dispelling all Illusion effects within.
Disguises and Illusions: Disguises in general refer to
things with physical components; a mundane disguise
would be the kind with props and fake moustaches and
the like. An example of a magical disguise would be a
Ditto's transformation. Illusions are magical effects,
such as the Move Double Team, Substitute, or the
Illusion Ability.
Small Prophecies
[+Special Defense]
Prerequisites: Divination, Adept Perception
1 AP ­ Swift Action
Effect: Roll 1d20 and note the result. Until the end of
your next turn, you may choose to replace a single d20
roll you or a willing ally makes with the noted result.
Mark of Vision
[+Special Defense]
Prerequisites: Oracle, Adept Perception
Bind 1 AP ­ Extended Action
Target: A willing Trainer
Effect: You mark the target with a mystical power which
allows you to close your eyes and focus to perceive the
world with their senses from their perspective. You may
Bind this Ability multiple times, each time on a different
target, but you may only concentrate on one Mark of
Vision at a time, and you may only have a number of
Marks at one time equal to half your Perception Rank.
A target may choose to end this effect at any time, or
to deny you access to their senses temporarily without
ending the effect entirely. You have a rough sense of
how far away and in what direction marked targets are.
Two-Second Preview
[+Special Defense]
Prerequisites: 3 Oracle Features, Expert Perception
Static
Effect: You gain the Instinct Ability.
Prescience
[+Special Defense]
Prerequisites: Unveiled Sight, Master Perception
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: You are hit by an attack
Effect: The attack instead misses.
Trainer Classes
187
GM's of the world! It's up to you to make Scrying and
Augury fun, and "worth it". So here's some advice.
First, you and your player should negotiate their PC's
method for scrying and making auguries. Maybe they
need to read tea leaves to use this ability; or gaze into
open flames. Maybe they trigger it "Accidentally"
while sleeping, or during another mundane activity.
Maybe they need to pry information from an enigmatic
Spiritomb that appears to them after they light a
candle and say a prayer. If you want to be thoroughly
boring, maybe they only need to focus on activating
their mystic abilities. Have fun with coming up with
a method; it should be something that's relatively easy
to do though, regardless of their location (don't make
them have to buy expensive items to do it each time, or
to scale a specific mountain in the region just to activate
this ability!).
Next, consider how you as a GM want to give
information. You shouldn't feel obligated to spoil plot
points that you don't want to hand out; at the same time,
this is a great way to give information to a PC that you
DO want them to know. Don't be afraid to make things
vague enough that they don't make sense at the time,
but do make sense later; don't ALWAYS do this though,
or the warnings given to them by their powers will feel
more like taunts if they never realize their meaning
until it's too late to do anything about it.
Scrying is the more straightforward effect and shouldn't
be too difficult. Simply consider how you want to
present the information. Augury is a bit more subtle.
Again, don't be afraid to be vague occasionally, or to
give incomplete information (e.g. - "You gain a feeling
you shouldn't trust <insert name here>, but you don't
know why" or "You see a rare herd of Kangaskhan and
sense that they're nearby, but you don't know in which
direction" are examples of perfectly acceptable visions).
Scrying and Augury
