Trainer Classes
140
Researcher
[Class][Branch]
Prerequisites: An Education Skill at Novice Rank
Static
Effect: Choose two Researcher Fields of Study. You may take Features from those Fields with this instance of
Researcher. Gain one Feature from a chosen Researcher Field for which you qualify.
Note: Researcher is broken up into multiple Fields of Study. You may not take Features from a Field of Study
you haven't chosen with the base Researcher Feature. You may take Researcher any number of times, each time
choosing two different Fields of Study.
Researcher Fields of Study
General Research Field
Breadth of Knowledge
Prerequisites: Novice General Education
Static
Effect: You gain three Skill Edges for which you qualify.
These Edges must be used to gain a Skill Edge with an
Education Skill, or to gain an Edge that has an Education
Skill as a Prerequisite that you meet.
Live and Learn
Prerequisites: Adept General Education
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: You or your Pokémon miss with an attack, fail
a Skill Check, or fail a Save Check
Effect: Add half of your General Education Rank to the
next roll of the same type that the triggering user makes.
Instant Analysis
Prerequisites: Expert General Education
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Pokémon with at least 2 Tutor Points
remaining
Effect: Your Pokémon loses 2 Tutor Points and gains the
Forewarn Ability.
Echoes of the Future
Prerequisite: Master General Education
Daily x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: You or your Pokémon make a roll
Effect: You may roll twice and keep the best result.
Trainer Classes
141
Apothecary Recipes
Restorative Science
Prerequisites: Apothecary
Cost: $100
Effect: You create an Antidote, Paralyze Heal,
Awakening, Burn Heal, Ice Heal, or Potion.
Super Cures
Prerequisites: Patch Cure
Cost: $200
Effect: You can create Revives and Super Potions.
Hyper Cures
Prerequisites: Medical Techniques
Effect: You can create Full Heals for $300, Hyper
Potions for $400, and Full Restores for $700.
Performance Enhancers
Prerequisites: Medicinal Blend
Cost: $4900
Effect: You create a PP Up or Heart Booster. If you have
a Heart Scale, you may destroy the Heart Scale to create
a Heart Booster without paying the monetary cost.
Apothecary Research Field
Apothecary
Prerequisites: Novice Medicine Education
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Effects: You gain use any Apothecary Recipe for which
you qualify.
Patch Cure
Prerequisites: Apothecary, Adept Medicine Education
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: A Restorative Item
Effect: You distill the target, gaining 3 Restorative
Patches. Restorative Patches have the same effect as the
items from which they were created, but can only be
applied as an Extended Action.
Medical Techniques
Prerequisites: Patch Cure, Expert Medicine Education
1 AP ­ Swift Action
Trigger: You apply a Restorative Item
Effect: The target gains a Tick of Hit Points, plus an
additional amount of Hit Points equal to your Medicine
Education Rank.
Medicinal Blend
Prerequisites: Apothecary, Master Medicine Education
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Ingredients: Two Restoratives, or a Restorative and an
X-Item
Effect: You fuse the two Ingredients, creating an Item
that has the properties of both. If you choose two
Restoratives, they cannot be Restoratives with the
same effect (you could not for example, mix a Potion
and a Super Potion). If a Restorative Patch is used as
an Ingredient, the resulting item can only be used as an
Extended Action.
Trainer Classes
142
Artificer Research Field
Crystal Artificer
Prerequisites: Gem Lore
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Effects: You may use any Crystal Artificer Recipe for
which you qualify.
Crystal Resonance
Prerequisites: Crystal Artificer, Skill Stunt (Dowsing)
Static
Effect: You roll an additional 3d6 when determining
how many Shards you find when Dowsing.
Rainbow Light
Prerequisites: Crystal Artificer, Expert Occult
Education
2 AP ­ Standard Action
Condition: You are wearing a Rainbow Gem
Effects: You create a Rainbow lasting one full round.
While this Rainbow persists, the Effect Range of all
Allies is increased by +3.
Fistful of Force
Prerequisites: Crystal Artificer, Master Occult
Education
Scene ­ Standard Action
Condition: You must have a Shard in your Main Hand
or Off-Hand to use Fistful of Force.
Effect: You may destroy the Shard to use the Move
Judgment. Judgment's Type must be one of the Types
associated with the used Shard. Instead of adding your
Special Attack when using this attack, you may choose
to add your Occult Education Rank tripled.
Artificer Recipes
Type Booster
Prerequisites: Crystal Artificer
Ingredients: x4 Shards of the same Color
Effects: You create a Type Booster. The Type chosen
must be one of the Types associated with the color of
the shards used.
Type Brace
Prerequisites: Crystal Artificer
Ingredients: x4 Shards of the same Color
Effects: You create a Type Brace. The Type chosen must
be one of the Types associated with the color of the
shards used.
Focus Gem
Prerequisites: Crystal Resonance
Ingredients: Any Six Shards.
Effect: You create a Focus that may crafted to be worn
as your choice of an Accessory Item, Head Slot Item, or
Hand or Off-Hand Item.
Chakra Crystal
Prerequisites: Crystal Resonance
Ingredients: Any Six Shards
Effect: You create a Stat Booster.
Rainbow Gem
Prerequisites: Rainbow Light, Expert Occult Education
Ingredients: Two Shards of each Color.
Effect: You create a Rainbow Gem that may crafted to
be worn as your choice of an Accessory Item, Head Slot
Item, or Hand or Off-Hand Item. This item has the same
effect as a Focus, except that as an Extended Action, any
Trainer with Expert Occult Education Rank or higher
may change which Stat the Rainbow Amulet is attuned
to.
Plate Crafter
Prerequisites: Rainbow Light, Expert Occult Education
Ingredients: A Type Booster and a Type Brace of the
same Type.
Effects: You create a Type Plate matching the Type
Booster and Brace used.
Trainer Classes
143
Botany Research Field
Seed Bag
[Ranked 2]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Green Thumb, Adept General
Education or Adept Survival
Rank 2 Prerequisites: Master General Education or
Master Survival
X Daily ­ Extended Action
Target: A Willing Pokémon
Rank 1 Effect: You become adept at harvesting Seeds
and Spores from Pokémon. You may target a willing
Grass-Type Pokémon that knows Sleep Powder, Stun
Spore, or Poison Powder. Add this move to your Move
list for the remainder of the day. You may not use Seed
Bag to have multiple instances of the same move in your
Move list. Seed Bag may be used twice per day per Rank.
Rank 2 Effect: You may also harvest Cotton Spore,
Leech Seed, Spore, or Worry Seed.
Top Tier Berries
Prerequisites: Green Thumb
Static
Effect: You may grow additional Berries and Herbs,
depending on the higher of your General Education or
Survival Rank.
»
» Novice: You may grow Tier 2 Berries
»
» Adept: You may grow Mental Herbs, Power Herbs,
White Herbs, and Tiny Mushrooms.
»
» Expert: You may grow Revival Herbs, Energy Roots,
Big Mushrooms, and Tier 3 Berries
»
» Master: Increase the Soil Quality of all your plants
by +1.
Herb Lore
Prerequisites: Seed Bag Rank 1
Static
Effect: You may create Energy Powder, Heal Powder, or
Poultices from ingredients, as listed below.
Energy Powder: A Sitrus Berry or Tiny Mushroom
creates x2 Energy Powders. An Energy Root creates x3
Energy Powders.
Heal Powder: A Lum Berry or Big Mushroom creates x2
Heal Powders. A Revival Herb creates x3 Heal Powders
Poultice: x1 Energy Powder and x1 Heal Powder create
x3 Poultices.
Trainer Classes
144
Chemistry Research Field
Chemist
Prerequisites: Repel Crafter
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Effect: You may craft any Chemistry Recipe for which
you qualify using your Chemistry Set.
Chemical Warfare
Prerequisites: Chemist, Adept Technology Education
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: You throw a Pester Ball
Effect: The Pester Ball creates a Blast 2, affecting all
targets in the area.
Caustic Chemistry
Prerequisites: Chemist, Expert Technology Education
1 AP ­ Swift Action
Trigger: You hit with a Pester Ball or apply a Repel to a
Pokémon
Effect: Make a Technology Education Roll. All targets
affected by this Feature's trigger lose Hit Points equal to
your roll. This may only affect a target once per Scene.
Playing God
Prerequisites: Chemist, Expert Technology Education
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Cost: $3500
Effect: Choose Castform, Grimer, Koffing, Magnemite,
Porygon, Solosis, Trubbish, or Voltorb. Using your
chemistry set, you create an artificial Egg of the Chosen
Pokémon, that hatches within a day. The resulting
Pokemon is born at level 5, with the Nature and Ability
of your choice (Abilities chosen from its species' Basic
Abilities). Additionally, you may enhance the Pokemon
in several ways. Choose a number of upgrades below
equal to your Technology Education Rank.
»
» The Pokémon is of an unusual coloration, gaining a
+2d6 Bonus to the Introduction Stage of a Contest
toward a single Contest Stat.
»
» The Pokémon adds a Move from its Egg Move or
Move Tutor List to its Inheritance List. This may be
performed up to 3 times.
»
» Increase one of the Pokémon's Base Stats by +1. This
counts as use of a Vitamin. This may be performed
up to 5 times.
Chemistry Recipes
Enhancers
Prerequisites: Chemist
Cost: $100
Effect: You can create any X-Item, Dire Hit, or Guard
Spec.
Pester Balls: Disorient
Prerequisites: Chemist
Cost: $50
Effect: You create Pester Balls that can inflict Rage or
Confusion.
Pester Balls: Pain
Prerequisites: Chemical Warfare
Cost: $50
Effect: You create Pester Balls that can inflict Burn or
Poison.
Pester Balls: Shut Down
Prerequisites: Caustic Chemistry
Cost: $50
Effect: You create Pester Balls that can inflict Paralysis
or Sleep.
Trainer Classes
145
Climatology Research Field
Climatology
Prerequisites: Novice Survival
Static
Effect: You gain the Overcoat Ability.
Climate Control
Prerequisites: Climatology
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: A Move or Ability creates a Weather Effect
while non-standard Weather is already in effect
Effect: The triggering Weather Effect does not replace
the already extant Weather in effect; both exist
simultaneously on the field. If a new Weather effect is
placed on the field after the two that are out, both are
replaced by the third, unless you activate this Feature
again to replace only one.
Weather Systems
Prerequisites: Climatology, Expert Survival
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Pokemon with at least 2 Tutor Point
Effect: Your Pokemon loses 2 Tutor Points, and learns
your choice of Hail, Rain Dance, Sandstorm, or Sunny
Day. The target must be able to learn the chosen Move
through Level-Up, TM, or Tutor Moves. If the target
has the chosen Move in their Level-Up List, Weather
Systems costs no Tutor Points.
Extreme Weather
Prerequisites: Climate Control, Master Survival
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: You or your Pokémon create a Weather
Condition
Effect: The Weather is particularly intense and has
additional effects.
»
» Hail: All Trainers and Pokémon that take Hail
Damage take a -5 Penalty to all Damage Rolls.
»
» Rain: All Trainers and Pokémon that are not Water
or Grass typed are Slowed.
»
» Sandstorm: All Trainers and Pokémon that take
Sandstorm damage take a -2 Penalty to Accuracy
Rolls.
»
» Sun: Trainers and Pokémon that are not Fire or
Grass Typed are Suppressed.
Occultism Research Field
Witch Hunter
Prerequisites: Novice Occult Education
Static
Effect: You gain the "Psionic Sight" Feature, even if you
do not meet the prerequisites. If you already had the
Psionic Sight Feature, you instead gain another Feature
for which you qualify.
Psionic Analysis
Prerequisites: Witch Hunter, Master Occult Education
Scene ­ Extended Action
Effect: You are able to analyze Psychic Residue and can
determine the following information about the Trainer
or Pokémon that left the residue:
»
» Whether they are a Human or a Pokémon
»
» Which Psychic-Type Moves they know
»
» If they're Human, which of the following Class
Features they have: Telepath, Telekinetic, Warper
Mental Resistance
Prerequisites: Witch Hunter
Static
Effect: You gain the Mindlock Capability and 10
Damage Reduction against Special Psychic, Ghost, and
Dark-Type damage.
Immutable Mind
Prerequisites: Mental Resistance, Expert Occult
Education
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: You're hit by a Psychic, Ghost, or Dark-Type
Move
Effect: If the triggering Move was a Status-Class Move,
the Move fails. If the Triggering Move was a Damaging
Move with a Secondary Effect that triggers on a certain
roll, you are immune to the secondary effect.
Trainer Classes
146
Paleontology Research Field
Fossil Restoration
Prerequisites: Paleontologist, Novice Pokémon
Education
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: A Fossil you are reviving
Effect: The resulting Pokémon is born with 2 fewer
Tutor Points, and gains its second Basic Ability. If it has
only has one Basic Ability, it gains one of its Advanced
Abilities, chosen by the GM. This Feature does not affect
how the Pokémon continues to gain Abilities.
Ancient Heritage
Prerequisites: Fossil Restoration
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Fossil Pokémon with at least 2 Tutor Points
remaining
Effect: The target loses 2 Tutor Points and learns Ancient
Power. If the target has Ancient Power in its Level-Up
List, Ancient Heritage costs no Tutor Points. As a static
effect, whenever your Pokémon use Ancient Power,
its activated effect occurs on 18+ and you may always
choose whether it deals Physical or Special Damage,
using the appropriate attack Stat.
Genetic Memory
Prerequisites: Ancient Heritage, Expert Pokémon
Education
Daily x2 ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Fossil Pokémon with at least 2 Tutor Points
remaining
Effect: The target loses 2 Tutor Points and learns any
Move from its Egg Move or Tutor Move List. Genetic
Memory may target a Pokémon only twice: once with
a Tutor Move and once with an Egg Move. Egg Moves
tutored this way do not count against the limit of 3 for
TM and Tutor Moves.
Prehistoric Bond
Prerequisites: Fossil Restoration, Expert Pokémon
Education
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: The remains of a Fossil you revived
Effect: You also produce a Held Item from the remnants
of the Fossil. The effect of this Held Item is based on
the highest Base Stat of the individual Pokémon being
Revived, counting the effects of Nature but no other
effects that alter Base Stats. If there is a tie, the GM
decides which Base Stat is used. This Held Item may
only be used by Pokémon revived from Fossils.
HP ­ Relic Crown: The holder gains a +2 Bonus to all
Save Checks.
Attack ­ Primal Frame: The holder's damaging attacks
have their Critical Hit Range extended by +1.
Defense ­ Prehistoric Razors: When a foe hits the
holder with a damaging Melee Attack, the holder may
cause them to lose a Tick of Hit Points as a Reaction.
Special Attack ­ Primal Cloak: The holder's damaging
attacks have their Effect Range extended by +1.
Special Defense ­ Prehistoric Aegis: The holder gains
5 Damage Reduction against Ranged Attacks.
Speed ­ Relic Sash: The holder gains +2 Evasion against
Status Moves.
Trainer Classes
147
Pokémon Caretaking Research Field
Pusher
Prerequisites: Novice Pokémon Education
Static
Effect: Your Pokémon gain the Basic Ranged Attacks,
Aura Pulse, Enticing Bait, Extended Invisibility, Far
Reading, Precise Threadings, Seismometer, TK Mastery,
and Trail Sniffer Poke Edges automatically if they qualify
for them, without having to invest any Tutor Points.
This One's Special, I Know It
Prerequisites: Pusher
Special ­ Free Action
Target: A hatching egg.
Effect: The Pokémon is born with special qualities,
determined by the GM. This Feature may be activated
one time per Pokémon Education Rank above
Untrained.
Skill Trainer
Prerequisites: Pusher
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: You Train your Pokémon
Effect: For each of your Pokémon that has been Trained
during this time, choose a Skill; that Skill becomes
Pushed until an Extended Rest is taken. Pokémon rolls
+1d6 with Pushed Skills, unless that would cause you to
roll more than 6d6; if so, that Pokémon rolls with a +3
Bonus instead. A Pokémon may have only one Pushed
Skill at a time.
Re-Balancing
Prerequisites: Pusher, Master Pokémon Education
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: A Pokémon with 2 Tutor Points
Effect: The target loses 2 Tutor Points, and gains one of
the following: +1 to all Base Stats, +2 to two different
Base Stats, or +3 to a single Base Stat. The target then
redistributes their Stat Points. A Pokémon may be
targeted by Re-Balancing only once.
