Trainer Classes
112
Stat Ace
[Class] [Branch]
Prerequisites: Ace Trainer or Style Expert, 1 Pokémon with the chosen stat of 15 or more, Novice Command or
Focus
Prerequisites: 3 Pokémon with the chosen stat at 20 or higher, Novice Command or Focus
Static
Effect: Your Pokémon have their Chosen Base Stat increased by +1, and by +1 more for every 10 Levels they have
(for example, a Level 20 Pokémon would have your Chosen Stat's base value increased by +3). Additionally, your
Pokémon may ignore Base Relations, as long as they are adding to the Stat chosen for Stat Ace, and you do not need
to "correct" Stats due to this inflated Stat Value.
Note: When you take Stat Ace, choose Attack, Defense, Special Attack, Special Defense, or Speed. This becomes
your Pokémon's Chosen Stat. You may take Stat Ace multiple times, choosing different Stats each time. If using
Style Expert to qualify for Stat Ace, your Chosen Stat must be the Stat that correlates to your Chosen Contest Stat.
Beauty is Special Attack, Cool is Attack, Cute is Speed, Smart is Special Defense, and Tough is Defense.
Stat Link
[Branch]
Prerequisites: Stat Ace
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: At the end of your Pokémon's turn, their
Chosen Stat is at its default number of Combat Stages
or less.
Effect: The triggering Pokémon has gains +1 Combat
Stage in your Chosen Stat. (Note: The "Default" number
of Combat Stages is usually 0)
Stat Training
[Branch]
Prerequisites: Stat Ace
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Pokémon with at least 1 Tutor Point
Effect: Your Pokémon loses 1 Tutor Point, and learns a
Move based on your Chosen Stat, even if your Pokémon
cannot normally learn this Move:
»
» Attack: Swords Dance or Rage
»
» Defense: Iron Defense or Reflect
»
» Special Attack: Nasty Plot or Hidden Power
»
» Special Defense: Amnesia or Light Screen
»
» Speed: Agility or After You
Stat Maneuver
[Branch]
Prerequisites: Stat Ace, Adept Command or Focus
Scene ­ Free Action
Effect: Stat Maneuver's Effect depends on your Chosen
Stat:
Attack Effect: You may activate this Feature to cause
one of your Pokémon to use a Physical "Melee, 1-Target"
Move as if its range was "Melee, Pass" or "Melee,
3-Targets" instead.
Defense Effect: You may activate this feature whenever
your Pokémon is hit by a Physical Attack to receive the
blow as if your Pokémon's Defense Combat Stages were
at +6 instead of their current value.
Special Attack Effect: You may activate this Feature to
allow your Pokémon to use a Special Burst, Cone, Close
Blast, Ranged Blast, or Line of any size as a Burst 1,
Cone 2, Close Blast 2, or Line 4 instead.
Special Defense Effect: You may activate this feature
whenever your Pokémon is hit by a Special Attack to
receive the blow as if your Pokémon's Special Defense
Combat Stages were at +6 instead of their current value.
Speed Effect: You may activate this Feature at any time
to cause your Pokémon to use a Move as Priority or a
Priority Move as Priority (Advanced).
Trainer Classes
113
Stat Mastery
[Branch]
Prerequisites: Stat Maneuver
Static
Effect: Stat Mastery's Effect depends on your Chosen
Stat:
Attack Effect: When your Pokémon successfully uses
a Push, Disarm, or Dirty Trick Combat Maneuver, the
target of the Maneuver loses a Tick of Hit Points.
Defense Effect: Whenever your Pokémon do not spend
their Shift Action to Shift during a turn, they gain +5
Damage Reduction for one full round.
Special Attack Effect: The Range of your Pokémon's
Special Non-Melee Moves is increased by +2. This does
not affect the size of Area-Of-Effect moves (But does
affect the range at which you can place Ranged Blasts).
Special Defense Effect: Whenever your Pokémon
would lose a Tick of Hit Points from Status Afflictions,
Weather, or other effects, they lose 5 fewer Hit Points, to
a minimum of 1.
Speed Effect: Your Pokémon may take Disengage
Maneuvers as Swift Actions.
Stat Embodiment
[Branch]
Prerequisites: 4 Stat Ace Features, Expert Command or
Focus
1 AP ­ Swift Action, Priority (Limited)
Target: Your Pokémon
Effect: Your Pokémon gains an Ability, based on your
Chosen Stat, for the remainder of the Scene. Switching
does not end this effect. Stat Embodiment may only
grant one Ability to a Pokémon at a time. If it is used
a second time on the same target, it replaces the first
granted Ability.
»
» Attack Aces give Sheer Force or Defiant
»
» Defense Aces give Filter or Battle Armor
»
» Special Attack Aces give Tinted Lens or Competitive
»
» Special Defense Aces give Multiscale or Tolerance
»
» Speed Aces give Speed Boost or Vanguard
Stat Stratagem
[Branch] [Order] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Stat Link, Stat Training, Master Focus or
Command
2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Pokémon
Effect: While this Feature is Bound, the target has the
following bonuses based on your Chosen Stat:
Attack Effect: The target's damaging Melee Attacks have
their Critical Hit Range increased by 1 for each positive
Combat Stage they have in Attack, up to a maximum of
+3.
Defense Effect: The target gains a +2 bonus to Save
Checks against Paralysis, Sleep, and Freeze for each
positive Combat Stage they have in Defense, up to a
maximum of +6.
Special Attack Effect: The target's damaging Ranged
Attacks have their Effect Range increased by 1 for each
positive Combat Stage they have in Special Attack, up to
a maximum of +3.
Special Defense Effect: The target gains a +2 bonus to
Save Checks against Confusion, Rage, and Infatuation
for each positive Combat Stage they have in Special
Defense, up to a maximum of +6.
Speed Effect: The target's Movement Capabilities are
increased by 1 for each positive Combat Stage they have
in Speed, up to a maximum of +3.
