Trainer Classes
149
Survivalist
[Class] [+HP]
Prerequisites: Novice Survival
One Time Use ­ Extended Action
Effect: Choose a Terrain in which you have spent at least three nights. You gain Naturewalk for that terrain and a
+2 bonus to Athletics, Acrobatics, Stealth, Perception, and Survival Checks in that terrain. When you have 2 Sur-
vivalist Features, you may choose a second Terrain. When you have 4 Survivalist Features, you may choose a third
terrain. When you have 6 Survivalist Features, you may choose a fourth terrain.
The terrains are: Grassland, Forest, Wetlands, Ocean, Tundra, Mountain, Cave, Urban, Desert
Natural Fighter
[+HP]
Prerequisites: Survivalist
1 AP ­ Special
Effect: You and your Pokémon become adept at using
the environment to your advantage in battle. You
or your Pokémon may activate Natural Fighter as a
Standard Action to use the Move below corresponding
to the current terrain. You and your Pokémon must still
follow all Frequency limitations for the Move.
Grassland: Cotton Spore; Forest: Grass Whistle;
Wetlands: Mud Slap; Ocean: Aqua Ring; Tundra: Haze;
Mountain: Smack Down; Cave: Astonish; Urban: Fling;
Desert: Sand Attack
Note: GMs! Don't be super duper strict about the
terrains here. Obviously a beach is analogous enough
to a desert to use Sand Attack, and a lake can count as
ocean terrain. In urban terrain, there'll probably at least
be trash around to Fling with the standard 6 DB option.
On the other hand, most standard arenas for League
matches won't qualify for any of the terrains. However,
some arenas may be specifically designed to emulate a
terrain type, such as a rocky stadium or a set of floating
platforms in a pool.
Trapper
[+HP]
Prerequisites: Survivalist, Adept Survival
Daily x2 ­ Extended Action
Effect: You create a consumable item that creates 8
meters of Hazard within 6 meters. All 8 meters must
be adjacent with at least one other space of the Hazard.
These Hazards cause foes that run into them to become
Slowed until the end of their next turn and have an
additional effect based on the terrain in which the item
was made. When foes run into these Hazards, they
are destroyed after their effects resolve. Pokémon and
Trainers with Naturewalk for the terrains associated
with a Hazard are immune to its effects. These items
must be used the same day they are created or they lose
all effect.
»
» Dust Trap ­ Grassland or Desert: A foe that runs
into this Hazard is Blinded until the end of their
next turn.
»
» Tangle Trap ­ Forest or Wetlands: A foe that runs
into this Hazard is must immediately stop Shifting,
and they are Stuck instead of Slowed until the end
of their next turn.
»
» Slick Trap ­ Ocean or Tundra: A foe that runs into
this Hazard becomes Vulnerable until the end of
their next Turn.
»
» Abrasion Trap ­ Mountain, Cave, or Urban: A foe
that runs into this Hazard lowers their Defense and
Special Defense by 1 Combat Stage.
Trainer Classes
150
Wilderness Guide
[+HP] [Orders]
Prerequisites: Survivalist, Expert Survival
Scene x3 ­ Standard Action
Effect: Wilderness Guide's effect depends on your
current terrain.
»
» Grassland or Forest: All allies gain the Stealth
Capability and a +2 bonus to their Overland Speed
for one full round.
»
» Ocean or Wetlands: All allies gain 5 Damage
Reduction and a +2 bonus to their Swim Speed for
one full round.
»
» Desert or Tundra: All allies do not lose Hit Points
from Weather and ignore the effects of foes' Sand
Veil and Snow Cloak Abilities for one full round.
»
» Mountain or Cave: All allies do not trigger Hazards
and are not Blinded in Low-Light conditions for
one full round.
»
» Urban: All allies gain +1 Evasion and a +2 bonus
on Accuracy Rolls and Skill Checks to perform the
Dirty Trick and Manipulate Combat Maneuvers for
one full round.
Terrain Talent
[Ranked 2] [+HP]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Survivalist, 2 Mastered Terrains
Rank 2 Prerequisites: Survivalist, 4 Mastered Terrains
Static
Effect: Each Rank, you gain two Terrain Talents, cho-
sen from the Terrains for which you gained Naturewalk
from Survivalist.
Note: You do not have to be in the corresponding
terrain to take advantage of Terrain Talents! They work
everywhere.
Adaptive Geography
[+HP]
Prerequisites: 4 Survivalist Features, Master Survival
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: You or your Pokémon gain Initiative
Effect: The triggering target takes their turn as if they
were in a terrain adjacent to the terrain they are in on
the following graphic. For example, if you are standing
in Wetlands terrain, you may act as if you are standing
in Forest or Ocean Terrain. This affects Survivalist
Features, Naturewalk Capabilities, Moves with the
Environ Keyword, etc.
Grassland
Forest
Desert
Urban Wetlands
Mountain Tundra
Cave Ocean
Trainer Classes
151
Terrain Talents
Plains Runner ­ Grassland Terrain
Static
Effect: Your Overland Speed is increased by +2. You
gain a +2 bonus to Perception Checks to spot or identify
objects in the far distance.
Forest Ranger ­ Forest Terrain
Static
Effect: You're used to navigating the dense plant life of
large forests. You gain the Stealth Capability.
Marsh Stomper ­ Wetland Terrain
Static
Effect: You can handle the toxic fauna and flora of the
marshes. You do not lose Hit Points from Poison and
lose only 1 instead of 2 Combat Stages from Poison. You
still count as Poisoned for the purpose of Moves and
effects.
Deep Diver ­ Ocean Terrain
Static
Effect: You love nothing better than the smell of the sea.
Your Swimming Capability is equal to your Overland
Capability instead of half. Additionally, you may hold
your breath underwater for a number of minutes equal
to your Survival Rank before you start suffocating.
Arctic Pilgrim ­ Tundra Terrain
Static
Effect: Neither deep slow nor slippery ice can deter you.
You are immune to the effects of Hail and to the Frozen
condition, and gain 5 Damage Reduction against Ice-
Type attacks.
Surefooted ­ Mountain Terrain
Static
Effect: You're not afraid of precarious ledges and steep
hills. You gain a +2 Bonus to Skill Checks made to
climb, balance, or maintain footing ­ including resisting
Push and Trip maneuvers. Whenever you take falling
damage, ignore one meter and receive one less Injury
when determining damage.
Cave Dweller ­ Cave Terrain
Static
Effect: Your eyes are used to very low levels of light.
You do not suffer Blindness for being in Low-Light
conditions. If you would be Totally Blinded by complete
darkness, you instead suffer the penalties of Blindness,
and may make Survival Checks instead of Acrobatics
to avoid becoming Tripped. You are immune to Stealth
Rock Hazards.
Traceur ­ Urban Terrain
Static
Effect: The city is your jungle. You gain a +1 Bonus to
your Jump Capabilities. Add half your Survival Rank
to your Evasion against Push, Trip, and Attack of
Opportunity Maneuvers.
Dune Walker ­ Desert Terrain
Static
Effect: Your long hours in the unforgiving desert have
made you inured to sand and heat. You're immune to
the effects of Sandstorm, Sand-Attack, and Sand Tomb,
and you gain 5 Damage Reduction against Fire-Type
attacks.
