Trainer Classes
105
Taskmaster
[Class]
Prerequisites: Brutal Training, Novice Intimidate
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: You apply Brutal Training as a Training action
Effect: You may grant your Pokémon up to three injuries. If your Pokémon has at least one Injury, it becomes
Hardened.
Mechanic ­ Hardened
Hardened Pokemon receive the following benefits:
»
» They do not lose Hit Points from acting while Heavily Injured
»
» Injuries beyond the 5th do not lower their Maximum Hit Points
»
» If they have 1 or more injuries, they gain +1 to Critical Hit and Effect Range.
»
» If they have 3 or more injuries, they gain +1 Evasion and +5 to Initiative.
»
» If they have 5 or more injuries, they gain +5 Damage Reduction.
»
» If they have 7 or more injuries, they are immune to Loss of Hit Points (but not damage) from all effects.
»
» If they have 9 or more injuries, they resist all damage one step further.
Quick Healing
Prerequisites: Taskmaster
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Effect: Your Hardened Pokémon may use Quick Healing
to remove up to three injuries, and gains two Ticks of
Hit Points for each Injury removed this way.
Note: The Injury Removal from this Feature counts
as Natural Healing, and thus counts against the total
number of Injuries that can be removed in a day.
Savage Strike
Prerequisites: Taskmaster
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Pokémon with at least 2 Tutor Points
Effect: The target loses 2 Tutor Points, and gains the
Cruelty Ability.
Strike of the Whip
Prerequisites: Taskmaster, Press
At-Will ­ Swift Action
Trigger: You use Press
Effect: You may apply 1 or more of the following effects
to the Pokémon hit by Press:
»
» Give the target 1 Injury and a Tick of Temporary
Hit Points.
»
» Spend 1 AP and cure the target of Confusion,
Infatuation, Rage, and Suppression.
»
» Use an [Order] you know with targets on the target
as a Free Action.
Pain Resistance
Prerequisites: Taskmaster, Adept Intimidate
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon with 1 or more injuries takes
Damage
Effect: Your Pokémon gains X Damage Reduction
against the triggering attack, where X is its Tick Value
multiplied by the number of Injuries it has. This may be
triggered once per Scene per Pokémon.
Press On!
Prerequisites: Taskmaster, Expert Intimidate
Static
Effect: Your Hardened Pokemon gain the following
benefits, based on your Intimidate Rank
»
» Expert: When your Pokemon Faints, you may pay
1 AP. If you do, your Pokemon Faints at -30% Hit
Points instead.
»
» Master: While acting at 0 Hit Points or less, your
Pokemon's Critical Hit, Effect Range, Evasion,
Initiative, Damage Reduction, and Resistance
Bonuses from being Hardened are doubled.
Note: Pokémon cannot use the Moves Explosion,
Endure, Pain Split, or Self-Destruct while they have 0
Hit Points or less. Pokémon with the Soulless capability
cannot benefit from Press On!
Trainer Classes
106
Desperate Strike
Prerequisites: Savage Strike, Expert Intimidate
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon triggers Cruelty, or scores a
Critical Hit with damaging attack.
Effect: Your Pokemon may apply the effects of Cruelty
to the attack without expending Cruelty's Frequency.
Cruelty's effects may be purchased as if the foe had
additional injuries equal to the number of injuries on
the user. Desperate Strike may be used once per Scene
per Pokémon.
Deadly Gambit
Prerequisites: 5 Taskmaster Features, Master Intimidate
Scene ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon is the target of a foe's damaging
melee attack
Effect: The triggering attack automatically hits as if
it was a Critical Hit. Before damage resolves, your
Pokémon may use a 1-Target damaging attack on the foe
making the triggering attack as an Interrupt, Frequency
allowing, and also automatically hits as a Critical Hit.
Damage for both attacks then resolve at the same time.
Note: This effect bypasses immunity to Critical Hits on
your own Pokémon, but not on the target. Though both
attacks hit automatically and are Critical Hits, you may
still roll to activate effects.
