Trainer Classes
193
Telepath
[Class] [+Special Defense]
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Psychic), Iron Mind, Novice Intuition
2 AP ­ Swift Action
Effect: You gain the Telepathy Capability for the rest of the scene.
Honed Mind
[+Special Defense]
Prerequisites: Telepath
Static
Effect: You learn the Moves Mind Reader and Calm
Mind.
Telepathic Awareness
[+Special Defense]
Prerequisites: Telepath
Static
Effect: Choose Gentle Vibe or Telepathy. You gain the
chosen Ability.
Thought Detection
[+Special Defense]
Prerequisites: Telepathic Awareness
Scene ­ Standard Action
Effect: You become aware of the number of living
Humans or Pokémon within X meters of yourself; X is
equal to your Focus Rank tripled. Pokémon or Trainers
with the Mindlock Capability are not detected by this
Ability. You may only use Thought Detection as long as
you have the Telepathy Capability.
Telepathic Warning
[+Special Defense]
Prerequisites: Telepathic Awareness, Expert Focus or
Intuition
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: You or an Ally use an Attack
Effect: You're able to give your allies heed of attacks.
All allies that would be hit by the attack may take a
Shift Action as an Interrupt to move out of the area
of effect of the attack. Using this leaves discoverable
Psychic Residue on each affected ally. You may only use
Telepathic Warning as long as you have the Telepath
Capability.
Mental Assault
[+Special Defense]
Prerequisites: Telepath, Expert Focus or Intuition
Static
Effect: You learn the Moves Extrasensory and Psyshock.
Suggestion
[+Special Defense]
Prerequisites: Honed Mind, Master Focus or Intuition
Bind 1 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Pokémon or Trainers
Effect: You smoothly plant a thought into the subject's
head that lasts as long as this Feature is Bound. They
won't know exactly why or how they thought of it; they
will naturally assume they thought of it themselves, and
their brain will attempt to get there as logically as it can.
The target may not necessarily act on the Suggestion,
especially if it is against their nature. Using Suggestion
to plant a specific thought may cause the target to
think about a specific subject, dredging up surface
thoughts related to the matter. Using this on a target
leaves discoverable psychic residue. You may only use
Suggestion as long as you have the Telepathy Capability,
though you may keep it Bound without having Telepathy
active.
