Trainer Classes
108
Trickster
[Class]
Prerequisites: Novice Guile
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits a foe with a Status-Class Move or a foe triggers your Pokémon's Hazard
Effect: After the Move is resolved, your Pokémon may perform a Dirty Trick or Manipulate Maneuver on that foe
as a Free Action. The Maneuver automatically hits, but the target must be in range for the chosen Maneuver. Use
your own Guile to resolve Manipulate Rolls.
Bag of Tricks
[Ranked 2]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Trickster
Rank 2 Prerequisites: Trickster
Static
Effect: You gain two Trickster Techniques of your
choice, found on the next page.
Stacked Deck
Prerequisites: Trickster, Adept Guile
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits a foe suffering from a
Status Affliction or one of the other conditions in the
table below
Effect: Choose a Status Affliction or condition the
triggering target is suffering from; the target suffers an
additional effect according to the table below. Stacked
Deck may only affect a foe once per Scene.
Condition Effect
Bad Dreams,
Cursed, Seeded,
Burn, Poison
Whenever the target loses
Hit Points from the chosen
condition, they lose an
additional 5 Hit Points.
Paralysis, Frozen,
Vortex, Sleep
The next time the target passes
their Save Check for the chosen
condition, they become Tripped
and Slowed.
Confuse, Enrage,
Suppression,
Infatuation
The target suffers a -2 penalty
to their Accuracy and Evasion
while suffering from the chosen
condition.
Flourish
Prerequisites: Trickster
Static
Effect: Your Pokémon's Status-Class Moves that affect
foes ignore non-Stat Evasion. They may Critically Hit
like damaging Moves on a roll of 20. Upon such a
Critical Hit, choose one effect from the list below. This
Critical Hit rate may be modified as normal.
»
» If the Move inflicts a Status Affliction with a Save
Check, all affected targets get a -4 penalty to their
first Save Check.
»
» If the Move lowers Combat Stages, then pick a Stat
that the Move lowers and lower it by 1 additional
Combat Stage.
»
» Your Pokémon gains a Tick of Temporary Hit Points.
Encore Performance
Prerequisites: 3 Trickster Features, Expert Guile
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon uses a Status-Class Move that
does not target foes.
Choose One Effect: Your Pokémon gains +1 Combat
Stage in any Stat in which they haven't gained a Combat
Stage this turn; or gains a second Standard Action this
round that must be used to make an At-Will action
that does not trigger Encore Peformance; or, if they
are placing Hazards, they may place an additional two
units; or, if they are activating a Weather Effect, it lasts
an additional two turns; or, if they are activating a
Blessing, it gains an additional use..
Sleight
Prerequisites: 4 Trickster Features, Master Guile
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Effect: Your Pokémon may activate Sleight as an
Interrupt to immediately take their turn and use a Status-
Class Move as a Standard Action. If this Move targets
a foe, it ignores Substitute and Defensive Abilities, and
Blessings may not be activated against the Move.
Trainer Classes
109
Mind Games
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits a foe with a Move with the
Social keyword
Effect: The foe becomes Vulnerable for one full round. If
the foe is afflicted with Rage, Suppression, Infatuation,
or Confusion you may change one of the listed Volatile
Status to another listed Volatile Status. Mind Games
may only be activated once per Scene per foe. When
inflicting Infatuation this way, the object of Infatuation
is your Pokémon, regardless of gender.
Escape Artist
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon targets an adjacent foe with a
Status-Class Move
Effect: The triggering Move cannot provoke an Attack
of Opportunity, and your Pokémon may immediately
perform a Disengage Maneuver as a Free Action.
Escape Artist may only be activated once per Scene per
Pokémon.
Shell Game
Scene x2 ­ Special
Target: Allied Hazards
Effect: Your Pokémon may activate Shell Game when
placing Hazards as as Free Action or otherwise as a
Standard Action. Choose one type of Hazard and move
all allied instances of that Hazard up to X meters, where
X is equal to half your Guile Rank; they do not have to
remain contiguous. You may use Shell Game to place
Hazards of different types on the same square or create
layers of Toxic Spikes.
Impromptu Trick
1 AP ­ Free Action
Trigger: A foe triggers an Attack of Opportunity from
your Pokémon
Effect: Your Pokémon may use a Move with the Hazard
Keyword or an At-Will or EOT Frequency Status-Class
Move targeting that foe instead of a Struggle Attack.
Trickster Techniques
