Trainer Classes
119
Type Ace
[Class] [Branch]
Prerequisites: 2 Different Pokémon of the Chosen Type, Type-Linked Skill* at Novice
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (of the Chosen Type), 1 Pokémon of the Chosen Type, Type-Linked Skill*
at Novice
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Pokémon with at least 2 Tutor Points remaining.
Effect: The target loses 2 Tutor Points and learns the Last Chance or Type Strategist Ability for your Chosen Type.
You may target a Pokémon only once with Type Ace.
Note: You can find the Type Strategist Ability and the various Last Chance Abilities in the Indices and Reference
chapter, but because they're mostly unique to Type Ace, you can see what they do here for convenience.
Type Refresh
[Branch] [Orders]
Prerequisites: Type Ace
2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Pokémon
Effect: The target regains one use of a Scene-Frequency
Move of your Chosen Type, and refreshes the Frequency
of all EOT-Frequency Moves of your chosen Type. A
Target can be affected by Type Refresh only once per
Scene.
Move Sync
[Branch]
Prerequisites: 3 Type Ace Features
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Pokémon with at least 1 Tutor Point.
Effect: The target loses 1 Tutor Point. Pick a Move in the
target's Move List. The picked move is now permanently
of your Chosen Type, and may have different effects.
See the Types Changes section (page 468) for more
information and suggestions. A Pokémon may have
only one Move-Sync'd Move in their Move List at a time;
to Sync a new Move, the old Move must be forgotten.
*Type-Linked Skills: Depending on your Chosen Type for Type Ace, your prerequisites for the Class and its
Features will change, each Type requiring one of two Type-Linked Skills. The Type-Linked Skills for each Type are:
Bug: Command
or Survival
Dark: Guile or
Stealth
Dragon:
Command or
Intimidate
Electric: Focus
or Technology
Education
Fairy: Charm or
Guile
Fighting:
Combat or
Intuition
Fire: Focus or
Intimidate
Flying:
Acrobatics or
Perception
Ghost:
Intimidate
or Occult
Education
Grass: Survival
or General
Education
Ground:
Perception or
Intuition
Ice: Athletics or
Survival
Normal: Charm
or Intuition
Poison:
Intimidate or
Stealth
Psychic: Focus
or Occult
Education
Rock: Combat
or Survival
Steel: Athletics
or Intimidate
Water: Athletics
or Intuition
Note: You may take Type Ace multiple times. Each time, you must choose a different Type and must specify for
which Type you take a Feature. Skill prerequisites for Type Ace always match the Type-Linked Skills for that Type.
Ability: Type Strategist
Static
Effect: Whenever the user uses a Move of the Type
associated with Type Strategist, they gain +5 Damage
Reduction for one full round. If they are under 1/3rd
of their Maximum Hit Points, they instead gain +10
Damage Reduction.
Ability: Last Chance (Type)
Static
Effect: Last Chance Abilities are always associated
with an Elemental Type. The user gains a +5 bonus to
Damage Rolls when using attacks of that Type. This
bonus increases to +10 when the user is under 1/3rd of
their Maximum Hit Points.
Trainer Classes
120
Bug Ace Features
Insectoid Utility
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Bug as Chosen Type
Static
Effect: Your Pokémon with the following Capabilities
have the upgrades below applied to them.
»
» Threaded: Your Pokémon may use its Threaded
attack to perform the Trip, Grapple, Push and
Disarm Combat Maneuvers and ignores Weight
and Size restrictions when doing so.
»
» Wallclimber: Immunity to Push and Trip effects.
»
» Naturewalk: Immunity to Slowed or Stuck in its
appropriate Terrains.
»
» Sky: Your Pokémon has a +1 bonus to its Speed
Evasion.
Iterative Evolution
[Orders] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Insectoid Utility, Type-Linked Skill at
Adept
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon
Effect: While this Feature is bound, if your Pokémon's
Bug-Type attack would deal Super-Effective Damage, it
gains a +2 Bonus to Accuracy Check. If it would deal
Neutral Damage, it gains a Bonus to its Damage Roll
equal to your Type-Linked Skill Rank. If it would be
resisted, it is resisted one step less. This is calculated
after applying any other effects that would modify
effectiveness before the Accuracy Roll is made, such as
the Tinted Lens Ability.
Chitin Shield
Prerequisites: Insectoid Utility, Type Linked Skill at
Expert
Daily x3 - Free Action
Trigger: Your Bug-Type Pokémon is hit by a Status-
Class Move
Effect: The effect misses, and your Pokemon becomes
immune to that Move for the rest of the Scene. Chitin
Shield may be triggered once per Scene per Pokemon.
Disruption Order
Prerequisites: Insectoid Utility, Type-Linked Skill at
Master
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits with a Bug-Type Move
Effect: Until the end of user's next turn, all targets hit by
the Move are Slowed, suffer a -X to Accuracy Rolls, and
are Flinched by Damaging Attacks on 16+.
Dark Ace Features
Clever Ruse
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Dark as Chosen Type
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon misses all targets with a Dark-
Type attack on their turn
Effect: Your Pokémon may apply two of the effects below
after the triggering attack is resolved. Your Pokémon
may also take a Standard Action to trigger this Feature.
This Feature may be triggered only once per round.
»
» They gain +4 Evasion for one full round.
»
» Their attacks ignore Evasion from Stats until the
end of their next turn.
»
» They may immediately Disengage as a Free Action.
Sneak Attack
[Orders] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Clever Ruse, Type-Linked Skill at Adept
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Dark-Type Pokémon
Effect: While this Feature is bound, when attacking foes
that are Fainted, Flanked, Flinched, Sleeping, Stuck,
Tripped, unaware of your Pokémon's presence, or
otherwise do not expect an attack, the target gains a +2
bonus to Accuracy Rolls and a bonus to Damage Rolls
equal to your Type-Linked Skill Rank.
Devious
Prerequisites: Clever Ruse, Type-Linked Skill at Expert
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Dark-Type Pokémon uses a Move with
the Social keyword.
Effect: Your Pokémon may immediately use a naturally
Dark-Typed Status-Class Move or a Move with the
Social keyword as a Free Action. This must be a different
Move than the triggering Move, and must follow all
Frequency limitations. Devious may be used only once
per Scene per Pokémon.
Black-Out Strike
Prerequisites: Clever Ruse, Type-Linked Skill at Master
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits with a damaging Dark-
Type Move
Effect: After the triggering attack is resolved, the target
of the attack gains an Injury and falls asleep. If this
attack would put them are 3 or more injuries or at or
under 25% of their maximum Hit Points, the target
instead becomes Fainted. Black-Out Strike may be used
only once per Scene.
Trainer Classes
121
Dragon Ace Features
Tyrant's Roar
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Dragon as Chosen Type
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits with a Dragon-Type Move
Effect: Your Pokémon creates a Burst 2, Slowing all Foes
in the area and causing those foes to lose 1 Combat Stage
in any Stat in which they have positive Combat Stages.
Highlander
[Orders] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Tyrant's Roar, Type-Linked Skill at Adept
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Dragon-Type Pokémon
Effect: While this Feature is Bound, the target gains X
Damage Reduction against Dragon-Type attacks, and
gain a +X Bonus to Damage Rolls with Dragon-Typed
attacks against other Dragon-Typed targets. X is equal
to your Type-Linked Skill Rank.
Unconquerable
Prerequisites: Tyrant's Roar, Type-Linked Skill at
Expert
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon uses a Dragon-Type Move
while they have 3 or more Status Afflictions
Effect: Your Pokémon is cured of up to three Status
Afflictions.
This Will Not Stand
Prerequisites: Tyrant's Roar, Type-Linked Skill at
Master
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Dragon-Type Pokémon takes a Critical
Hit or Massive Damage
Effect: Your Pokémon gains +1 Combat Stage in each of
Attack, Special Attack, and Speed. This Will Not Stand
may trigger only once per Scene per Pokémon.
Electric Ace Features
Lockdown
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Electric as Chosen Type
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon's Damaging Electric Attack
would inflict Paralysis on an already Paralyzed foe
Effect: For 1 full round, that foe is instead Stuck and
may only use At-Will Frequency Moves.
Overload
[Orders] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Lockdown, Type-Linked Skill at Adept
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Pokémon
Effect: While this Feature is Bound, whenever the target
hits a foe with an Electric Attack, they may choose to
have the foe lose Hit Points equal to the target's Tick
value plus your Type-Linked Skill Rank. If they do,
the target loses a Tick of Hit Points after the attack is
resolved.
Shocking Speed
Prerequisites: Lockdown, Type-Linked Skill at Expert
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Effect: You may activate this Feature to have your
Electric-Type Pokémon may use an Electric-Type
Move with a Frequency of At-Will as if it had Priority
(Advanced).
Chain Lightning
Prerequisites: Lockdown, Type-Linked Skill at Master
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits with a damaging 1-target
Electric Attack
Effect: Pick another Pokémon or Trainer within 3
meters of the target of the attack. You may repeat the
triggering attack against the target, with a -5 Damage
penalty. If you hit, you may repeat the attack a third
time against a foe within 3 meters of the second target,
this time with a -10 Damage penalty. The third target
cannot be the same as the original target.
Trainer Classes
122
Fairy Ace Features
Fairy Lights
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Fairy as Chosen Type
At-Will ­ Special
Effect: Your Fairy-Type Pokemon may activate Fairy
Lights as a Standard Action to create 3 Fairy Lights
that hover around themselves. Whenever the target
is attacked by a foe within 6 meters, they may expend
a Fairy Light to either immediately gain a Tick of
Temporary Hit Points, or to use the Move Fairy Wind
as a Free Action.
Special: Fairy Lights also provide mild lighting,
comparable to a candle. As an extended action your
Pokemon can control the lights individually, but they
must stay within 6 meters of the Pokemon that created
them.
Arcane Favor
Prerequisites: Fairy Lights, Type-Linked Skill at Adept
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon uses a Fairy-Type Move
Effect: Your Pokémon and all allies on the Field gain a
+1 Bonus to all rolls for one full round.
Fey Trance
[Orders] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Fairy Lights, Type-Linked Skill at Expert
Bind 2 AP ­ Free Action
Target: Your Pokemon
Effect: While this Feature is bound, whenever the target
uses a 1-Target Move with the Social Keyword or a
Fairy-Type Status Move, the foe hit by the triggering
Move becomes Infatuated with your Pokemon, and
immediately Shifts towards your Pokemon, forfeiting
their next Shift Action. This may affect a specific foe
only once per Scene.
Fairy Rite
Prerequisites: Fairy Lights, Type-Linked Skill at Master
Daily x3 ­ Special
Trigger: Your Pokémon creates Fairy Lights as a
Standard Action
Effect: Your Fairy-Type Pokémon may activate Fairy
Rite as a Standard Action to lose any number of Hit
Points, up to a maximum equal to your Pokémon's Level,
and heal an adjacent Ally by that many Hit Points. Then,
if your Fairy-Type Pokémon has any Fairy Lights, they
may immediately expend any Fairy Lights to gain a Tick
of Hit Points, or cause an ally within 6 meters to gain a
Tick of Hit Points.
Fighting Ace Features
Close Quarters Mastery
[Orders] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Fighting as Chosen Type
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Pokémon
Effect: While this Feature is Bound, the target's
Fighting-Type Moves cause foes to become Marked by
the target for 1 full round. If the target is a Fighting-
Type Pokémon, they may also Mark the Foe for one
full round when hitting with a Grapple, Trip, or Push
Maneuver.
Marked Foes provoke an attack of Opportunity from
the Pokémon that marked them if they Shift out of an
adjacent square into a square that is not adjacent, even
if they use a Disengage Maneuver. Targets cannot be
Marked by more than one Pokémon at a time.
Brawler
Prerequisites: Close Quarters Mastery, Type-Linked
Skill at Adept
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon makes a Struggle Attack
Effect: This Struggle Attack has a range of Burst 1,
Friendly instead of the usual range, and deals Fighting-
Type Damage.
Face Me Whelp
Prerequisites: Close Quaters Mastery, Type-Linked
Skill at Expert
Static
Effect: While your Pokémon is adjacent to a foe they
Marked, that foe gains a -X penalty to Accuracy Rolls
and a -10 penalty to Damage Rolls on attacks that do
not target the Pokémon that Marked them. X is equal to
half your Type-Linked Skill Rank.
Smashing Punishment
Prerequisites: Close Quarters Mastery, Type-Linked
Skill at Master
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: A Marked Foe provokes an Attack of
Opportunity from your Fighting-Type Pokémon
Effect: The Attack of Opportunity automatically hits,
deals Fighting-Type Damage, and is a Critical Hit.
Trainer Classes
123
Fire Ace Features
Brightest Flame
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Fire as Chosen Type
Static
Effect: Your Pokémon's damaging Fire-Type Moves
Burn their target on a roll of 18+. If a Move already has
a chance to Burn a target, this Effect Range is instead
increased by +3. Additionally, your Pokémon's damaging
Fire-Type Moves deal additional damage equal to your
Type-Linked Skill Rank against Burned targets.
Trail Blazer
Prerequisites: Brightest Flame, Type-Linked Skill at
Adept
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Fire-Type Pokémon Shifts
Effect: Your Pokémon sets the ground aflame and leaves
a Fire Hazard in each square it shifts through this round,
up to a maximum of 8 squares. Anyone who begins or
ends their turn on a Fire Hazard are Burned. Anyone
that passes through a Fire Hazard loses a Tick of Hit
Points. If a Ground, Rock, or Water-Type Move targets
a square (or a target in a square) with Fire Hazard in
them, the Fire Hazards are destroyed. All effects that
destroy Hazards extinguish Fire Hazards. Trail Blazer
may only be used once per Scene.
Incandescence
[Orders] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Brightest Flame, Type-Linked Still at
Expert
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Trigger: Your Fire-Type Pokémon
Effect: While this Feature is Bound, the target adds both
their Attack and Special Attack Stat to all damaging
Fire-Type Attacks, instead of one or the other. This does
not stack with Twisted Power.
Fan The Flames
Prerequisites: Brightest Flame, Type-Linked Skill at
Master
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon uses a 1-Target Fire-Type Move
Effect: Instead of its usual range, the attack may be
performed as if it had a range of Burst 1 if melee, or
Cone 2 if ranged.
Flying Ace Features
Celerity
[Orders] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Flying as Chosen Type
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: A Flying-Type Pokémon, or a Pokémon with a
Sky or Levitate Speed
Effect: While this Feature is Bound, add your Type-
Linked Skill to the target's Initiative. Additionally, if the
Target uses a Disengage Maneuver, they may Shift as if
Slowed instead of shifting only 1 Meter.
Gale Strike
Prerequisites: Celerity, Type-Linked Skill at Adept
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon uses a Flying-Type Move with
an Accuracy Check
Effect: You may roll the Accuracy Check twice, and
resolve using either result. If both results would hit
and you resolve the attack using the lower result, Gale
Strike's Frequency is not expended.
Zephyr Shield
Prerequisites: Celerity, Type-Linked Skill at Expert
At-Will ­ Special
Effect: Your Flying-Type Pokémon may activate Zephyr
Shield as a Standard Action Interrupt, or as a Shift
Action during their turn. If they do, until the end of the
user's next turn, all ranged attacks targetting them take
a -1 penalty to Accuracy and -10 penalty to damage,
they become immune to the effects of Moves with
the Powder keyword, and they do not lose Hit Points
from Weather effects. Additionally, if Zephyr Shield is
used as a Standard Action, that Pokémon may use the
Resolution Effect of a Flying-Type Move with the Set-
Up keyword on their next turn, skipping the Set-Up
phase.
Tornado Charge
Prerequisites: Celerity, Type-Linked Skill at Master
Daily x3 ­ Special
Trigger: Your Pokémon gains Initiative
Effect: Your Pokémon gains 2 additional Standard
Actions this turn. Your Pokémon may also Shift between
taking each action, so long as their total Movement
does not exceed their Movement Capabilities. All three
of your Pokémon's Standard Actions this turn must be
used to perform Zephyr Shield, or Flying-Type Moves
with a Frequency of At-Will or EOT. Tornado Charge
may be used only once per day per Pokémon.
Trainer Classes
124
Ghost Ace Features
Ghost Step
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Ghost as Chosen Type
At-Will ­ Free Action
Effect: Your Ghost-Type Pokémon may activate this
Feature by spending a Shift Action to remove themselves
from the field. They may not be targeted in any way
during this time. At the beginning of their next turn,
they reappear in any square of their choice that they
could have Shifted to from their previous location. Each
Pokémon may activate Ghost Step only once per Scene.
Haunting Curse
[Orders] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Ghost Step, Type-Linked Skill at Adept
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Pokémon
Effect: While this Feature is bound, the target gains a
Curse Token each time they use a Ghost-Type Move
or Ghost Step. Ghost-Type Moves with a Set-Up and
Resolution Phase give a Curse Token for each Phase. As
a Standard Action during their turn, or as Free Action
upon Fainting, the target may spend their Curse Tokens
to apply conditions to a foe within 6 meters.
»
» 1 Curse Token: The target loses a Combat Stage of
your choice.
»
» 2 Curse Tokens: The target becomes Cursed.
»
» 3 Curse Tokens: The target becomes Suppressed.
»
» 4 Curse Tokens: The target falls Asleep and gains
Bad Sleep.
Vampirism
Prerequisites: Ghost Step, Type-Linked Skill at Expert
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits an adjacent foe with a
Ghost-Type Move
Effect: Choose a Stat. The triggering foe loses a Tick
of Hit Points and a Combat Stage in that Stat. Your
Pokémon gains 1 Combat Stage in the chosen Stat, and
a Tick of Temporary Hit Points.
Boo!
Prerequisites: Ghost Step, Type-Linked Skill at Master
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon reappears after using Ghost
Step, or the set-up phase of Phantom Force or Shadow
Force
Effect: The next Ghost-Type attack the target makes that
turn gains the Smite keyword and can't be Intercepted
or avoided in any way (Dodge, Parry, Shield Moves, etc).
Grass Ace Features
Foiling Foliage
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Grass as Chosen Type
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Pokémon with a Grass-Type Status Move
Effect: Pick a Grass-Type Status-Class Move known
by the target. The chosen Move no longer takes up a
Move Slot. A Pokémon may have only one Move bypass
the Move Limit at a time; if a new Move is chosen for a
Pokémon, the previous Move loses this effect.
Sunlight Within
[Order] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Foiling Foliage, Type-Linked Skill at
Adept
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Pokémon
Effect: While this Stratagem is bound, your Pokémon
may activate Moves and Abilities as if they were in
Sunny Weather.
Enduring Bloom
Prerequisites: Foiling Foliage, Type-Linked Skill at
Expert
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Grass-Type Pokémon is hit by a damaging
Bug, Fire, Flying, Ice, or Poison attack that deals Super-
Effective Damage
Effect: Your Pokémon gains Temporary Hit Points
equal to twice your Type-Linked Skill Rank, and gains
+1 Combat Stage in the Stat of your choice. If it is Sunny,
they may gain +1 Combat Stage in a second, different
Stat. You may activate Enduring Bloom only once per
Scene per Pokémon.
Cross-Pollinate
Prerequisites: Foiling Foliage, Type-Linked Skill at
Master
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Grass-Type Pokémon uses a damaging
Grass-Type Move
Effect: Your Pokémon may immediately use a Grass-
Type Status-Class move as a Free Action.
Trainer Classes
125
Ground Ace Features
Mold the Earth
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Ground as Chosen Type
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon with the Groundshaper
Capability uses a Ground-Type Move
Effect: Your Pokémon may use the Groundshaper
Capability as a Free Action. When used this way,
Groundshaper creates Spike Hazards in each square
turned into Rough or Slow Terrain. If you wish, instead
of Groundshaper's normal range, you may choose to
affect the square targeted by the attack and all cardinally
adjacent squares. If the triggering Move is a Burst, Blast,
Line, or Cone, you may choose to affect all squares in
the targeted area instead.
Desert Heart
[Order] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Mold the Earth, Type-Linked Skill at
Adept
Bind 2 AP ­ Free Action
Target: Your Pokémon
Effect: While this Stratagem is bound, your Pokémon
may activate Moves and Abilities as if they were in a
Sandstorm.
Earthroil
Prerequisites: Mold the Earth, Type-Linked Skill at
Expert
At-Will ­ Free Action
Effect: Your Ground-Type Pokémon may activate
Earthroil as a Shift Action to use a damaging Ground-
Type Move as it had a range of Line 4 or Burst 1 instead
of its usual range, and as if it had the Groundsource
keyword. 1-Target Moves performed this way take a -5
penalty to their Damage Rolls.
Upheaval
Prerequisites: Mold the Earth, Type-Linked Skill at
Master
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon uses the Groundshaper
Capability, or a Move with the Groundsource keyword
Effect: Your Pokémon may make a Trip Attempt as a
Free Action against any Pokémon targeted by the Move,
or standing on a square changed by the Groundshaper
capability. Your Pokémon gains a bonus to their Combat
Roll equal to half of your Type-Linked Skill Rank.
Ice Ace Features
Glacial Ice
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Ice as Chosen Type
Static
Effect: Your Ice-Type Pokémon gain Damage Reduction
equal to your Type-Linked Skill Rank against Fighting,
Fire, Rock, and Steel-Typed Attacks from which they
would take Super-Effective Damage.
Polar Vortex
[Order] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Glacial Ice, Type-Linked Skill at Adept
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Pokémon
Effect: While this Stratagem is bound, your Pokémon
may activate Moves and Abilities as if they were in Hail.
Arctic Zeal
Prerequisites: Glacial Ice, Type-Linked Skill at Expert.
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Ice-Type Pokémon uses an Ice-Type Move
Effect: Your Pokémon uses the Move Mist as if it were
on their Move List. When used this way, in addition to
its normal effects, your Ice-Type Pokémon may expend
uses of the Mist Blessing to do the following:
»
» As a Swift Action on their turn to cause a foe within
5 meters to take a -5 penalty to Damage Rolls and
become Slowed for one full round.
»
» As a Free Action when being hit by a Fighting, Fire,
Rock, or Steel-Typed attack dealing Super-Effective
Damage to add their Tick Value to their Damage
Reduction gained from Glacial Ice.
»
» As a Swift Action on their turn to increase their
Defense or Special Defense by 1 Combat Stage.
Note: Hey other players! Be nice and ask the Ice Ace for
permission before using up all their Blessings from this
Feature for yourself. They kinda need `em.
Deep Cold
Prerequisites: Glacial Ice, Type-Linked Skill at Master
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits with a damaging Ice-Type
Move
Effect: The target is Frozen, and has their Attack,
Special Attack, and Speed Combat Stages lowered by
1 each. The target is automatically cured of the Frozen
Condition after 1 full round. A foe may be affected by
Deep Cold only once per Scene.
Trainer Classes
126
Normal Ace Features
Extra Ordinary
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Normal as Chosen Type
At-Will ­ Extended Action
Target: Your Normal-Type Pokémon with Last Chance
or Normal Strategist
Effect: Your Pokémon gains the Last Chance or Normal
Strategist Ability, whichever one they do not already
have. Extra Ordinary can target a Pokémon only once.
Plainly Perfect
[Orders] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Extra Ordinary, Type-Linked Skill at
Adept
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Pokémon
Effect: While this Feature is bound, instead of rolling
for damage with Normal-Type Moves, your Pokémon
acts as if they rolled the maximum value on their
Damage Dice Roll. Plainly Perfect only works for the
first instance of the Damage Dice Roll on Critical Hits.
New Normal
Prerequisites: Extra Ordinary, Type-Linked Skill at
Expert
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits with a Normal-Type Move
with conditional modifiers which increase or decrease
its damage
Effect: You use the highest damage value for the
triggering Move. (Examples: Return is DB 9, Wring Out
never has its damage decreased due to the target's Hit
Points, Retaliate is DB 14) New Normal may only be
used once per Scene per Pokémon. New Normal may
not raise a Move's Damage Base above 14; if a Move
would have its Damage Base raised above that value, it
is instead raised to 14.
Simple Improvements
Prerequisites: Extra Ordinary, Type-Linked Skill at
Master
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Normal-Type Pokémon gains Initiative
Effect: Add your Type-Linked Skill Rank to all of
your Pokémon's rolls this turn. Your Pokémon gains
Temporary Hit Points equal to twice your Type-Linked
Skill Rank. Simple Improvements may only be used
once per Scene per Pokémon.
Poison Ace Features
Potent Venom
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Poison as Chosen Type
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Poison-Type Pokémon inflicts Poison on
a foe
Effect: The foe does not necessarily lose Special Defense
Combat Stages from Poison; instead, they lose Combat
Stages in the Combat Stat of your choice. Whenever the
target loses Hit Points from Poison, they lose additional
Hit Points equal to your Type-Linked Skill Rank.
Debilitate
[Order] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Potent Venom, Type-Linked Skill at
Adept
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Poison-Type Pokémon
Effect: While this Feature is Bound, when the target
sucessfully hits a Poisoned or Blighted foe with a Poison-
Type Move, the foe gains a -2 penalty to Accuracy Rolls
and Evasion for one full round.
Miasma
Prerequisites: Potent Venom, Type-Linked Skill at
Expert
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon misses with a Poison-Type
Move
Effect: Your Pokémon may use either Smokescreen
or Poison Gas as if they were on their Move List.
When used this way, these Moves ignore Frequency
Limitations, and are used as a Ranged Blast 3, with the
blast centered on the square targeted by the triggering
attack. Poison-Type Pokémon are not negatively affected
by Smoke Screens created this way. Your Pokémon may
also trigger Miasma deliberately as a Standard Action.
Corrosive Blight
Prerequisites: Potent Venom, Type-Linked Skill at
Master
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits a foe with a Poison-Type
Attack
Effect: The target gains the Blight Condition for one full
round. Blighted targets lose a Tick of Hit Points upon
being hit by any attack. If the attack is Poison-Typed,
the Blight effect's duration is refreshed.
Trainer Classes
127
Psychic Ace Features
Psionic Sponge
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Psychic as Chosen Type
At-Will ­ Special
Effect: Your Psychic-Type Pokémon may activate
Psychic Sponge as a Shift Action to add a Psychic Type
Move known by an ally within X meters to their Move
List until the end of their turn. This does not allow them
to have duplicate Moves in their Move List. This Feature
may only be used once per Pokémon per Scene, and X
is equal to your Type-Linked Skill Rank.
Mindbreak
[Order] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Psionic Sponge, Type-Linked Skill at
Adept
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Psychic-Type Pokémon
Effect: While this Feature is Bound, the target's
damaging Psychic-Type Moves gain a +1 Bonus to
Effect Range and a +3 Bonus to Damage Rolls for each of
the following conditions that the target is suffering: Bad
Sleep, Confusion, Curse, Disabled, Flinch, Infatuation,
Rage, or Suppression.
Psychic Resonance
Prerequisites: Psionic Sponge, Type-Linked Skill at
Expert
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits a foe with a Psychic-Type
Status Move
Effect: Your Pokémon may use the Move Encore against
the triggering foe, as if it was on their Move List.
Force of Will
Prerequisites: Psionic Sponge, Type-Linked Skill at
Master
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon uses a Psychic-Type Status
Move with a range of Blessing, Field, Hazard, or Self.
Effect: Your Pokémon may immediately use another
Psychic-Type Status Move from its Move List with a
range of Blessing, Field, Hazard, or Self.
Rock Ace Features
Gravel Before Me
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Rock as Chosen Type
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Rock-Type Pokémon misses all targets
with a Rock-Type attack, receives an Injury, suffers a
Critical Hit, or Faints.
Effect: Create a Stealth Rock Hazard adjacent to your
Pokémon.
Bigger and Boulder
Prerequisites: Gravel Before Me, Type-Linked Skill at
Adept
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits with a damaging Rock-
Type Move
Effect: All targets hit by the triggering Move are pushed
a number of meters equal to half your Type-Linked Skill
Rank or less, and they become Vulnerable for one full
round. Create a Stealth Rock Hazard adjacent to each
foe hit this way.
Tough as Schist
[Orders] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Gravel Before Me, Type-Linked Skill at
Expert
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Rock-Type Pokémon
Effect: While this Feature is Bound, allied Stealth Rock
Hazards within 4 meters of your Pokémon are not used
when a foe triggers them unless you want them to be.
Whenever the target takes Super-Effective Damage from
a Water, Grass, Ground, Fighting, or Steel Type Attack,
they may consume an allied Stealth Rock Hazard within
4 meters to create temporary armor that grants them
Damage Reduction equal to your Type-Linked Skill
Rank for one full round.
Gneiss Aim
Prerequisites: Gravel Before Me, Type-Linked Skill at
Master
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon misses with a Damaging Rock-
Type Move
Effect: The Move gains the Smite keyword for that use.
Trainer Classes
128
Steel Ace Features
Polished Shine
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Steel as Chosen Type
Static
Effect: The Effect Range of your Pokémon's Steel-Type
Moves is increased by +2.
Iron Grit
[Orders] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Polished Shine, Type-Linked Skill at
Adept
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Effect: When this Feature becomes Bound, the target
gains +1 Defense Combat Stage. While the Feature
remains bound, the target's Defense Stat cannot be
lowered, and its Defense Combat Stages cannot be
lowered.
Assault Armor
Prerequisites: Polished Shine, Type-Linked Skill at
Expert
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits with a Steel-Type attack
Effect: Your Pokémon may add its Defense Stat to their
Damage Roll in place of the attack's normal offensive
stat.
True Steel
Prerequisites: Polished Shine, Type-Linked Skill at
Master
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Steel-Type Pokémon is hit by a damaging
attack
Effect: Your Pokémon gains Damage Reduction against
the attack equal to your Type-Linked Skill Rank.
Additionally, calculate Type Effectiveness with this
attack as if your Pokémon has no Typings besides Steel.
Water Ace Features
Flood!
Prerequisites: Type Ace, Water as Chosen Type
At-Will ­ Free Action
Effect: Your Water-Type Pokemon may activate Flood!
as a Shift Action to use a damaging Water-Type Move
as if had a range of Line 4 or Close Blast 2 instead of its
usual range.
Fishbowl Technique
[Orders] [Stratagem]
Prerequisites: Flood!, Type-Linked Skill at Adept
Bind 2 AP ­ Standard Action
Target: Your Pokémon
Effect: While this Stratagem is bound, your Pokémon
may activate Moves and Abilities as if they were in
Rainy Weather.
Fountain of Life
Prerequisites: Flood!, Type-Linked Skill at Expert
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Water-Type Pokémon hits with a
damaging Water-Type attack
Effect: You may choose to take a penalty to the Damage
Roll for the attack up to triple your Type-Linked Skill
Rank or up to half the rolled damage for the triggering
attack, whichever is lower. Your Pokémon gains twice
that value in Temporary Hit Points and may cure
themselves of one Status Affliction. Fountain of Life
may only be used once per Scene per Pokémon.
Aqua Vortex
Prerequisites: Flood!, Type-Linked Skill at Master
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: Your Pokémon hits with a damaging Water-
Type attack
Effect: All targets of the attack are put in a Vortex, and
take a penalty to all Damage Rolls equal to your Type-
Linked Skill Rank while in the Vortex.
