Trainer Classes
195
Warper
[Class] [+Speed]
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Psychic), Novice Guile
Static
Effect: You gain the Probability Control Ability.
Space Distortion
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: Warper
Static
Effect: You learn the Moves Teleport and Ally Switch.
Warping Ground
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: Warper
Static
Effect: You learn the Moves Gravity and Trick.
Strange Energy
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: Warping Ground, Space Distortion
Static
Effect: You learn the Moves Heal Block and Magic Coat.
Farcast
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: Space Distortion, Expert Guile
Daily x3 ­ Free Action
Trigger: You use the Move Teleport or activate the
Teleporter Capability
Choose One Effect: You activate Teleporter as if your
Teleporter value were three times its normal value or
you may take one willing Pokémon or Trainer along
with you as you teleport so long as you are touching
them when you activate Farcast. You may expend two
uses of Farcast at once to choose both effects.
Warped Transmission
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: Farcast, Master Guile
2 AP ­ Swift Action
Trigger: You activate the Teleporter Capability or use
the Move Ally Switch
Effect: All adjacent foes to the square you end in after
teleporting or using Ally Switch have their Evasion
lowered by 3 for one full round and cannot trigger
Attacks of Opportunity against you for Shifting until
the end of your next turn.
Reality Bender
[+Speed]
Prerequisites: Warper, Expert Guile
Daily ­ Free Action
Effect: You are able to subconsciously alter the fabric
of reality to change small facts or circumstances. If
your character is confronting a "random" event such as
a die roll, coin flip, or cards being dealt, the character
may activate this Feature to influence the event. In
this scenario, the GM provides you with two possible
outcomes, and you pick one of them to actually occur.
This means you always decide the outcome of binary
events such as a coin flip; cheating cards or slot machines
is much harder, as there are multiple outcomes and you
only get to pick between two. This Feature can also be
used to generate common items worth $250 or less that
the character might normally possess, such as a Potion
or Poké Ball, when in a pinch. The character just happens
to find the needed item among their belongings. This
Feature can only create items you wish to use at that
moment, and of which you have none available; such as
needing to heal a Pokémon but having no Potions left.
Items created with Reality Bender must be used quickly
after activating the feature and cannot be stored for later.
Doxy: To be clear, this Feature refers to die rolls ­in
game-, not any die rolls used to PLAY the
game. Also, GMs are encouraged to whap
any Warpers on the nose with a rolled up
newspaper if they try to apply to this to combat...
except, perhaps, if they or their Pokémon attempts to
use the Move Metronome...
