The Blessed and Damned
­44­
Touched
The most common of those given gifts of the divine are The Touched. Often Touched individuals are devotees of
their benefactor, cultists of a mysterious faith or heroes of great renown. In other instances they were simply in the
right place at the right time. The Touched have been blessed by a greater being. This blessing is not just a measure
of faith in the individual, but a force that changes them physically, mentally and spiritually.
Mechanically, Touched is the main gate way for blessed individuals to aquire Gifts. It includes both Edges and Feats,
and more specific archtypes of Blessed individuals (Like Signers and Messiahs) require Touched as a prerequisite.
The Blessed and Damned
­45­
Edges
Touched
Prerequisites: GM Permission
Static
Effect: You have been blessed by a Legendary and gain
their Minor Gift. This Legendary is considered one of
your Patrons. You may take Touched multiple times,
each time for a different Patron.
Soulbound
Prerequisites: Touched
Static
Effect: Whenever your Patron feels strong emotions
(positive or negative) or pain, those sensations will be
shared with you, no matter the distance between you.
You may take Soulbound multiple times, each time for
a different instance of Touched.
Feats
Major Gift
[PATRON STAT]
Prerequisites: Touched, GM Permission
Static
Effect: You gain one of your Patron's Major Gifts. This
Major Gift may be of your GM's choosing. This feat is
able to be taken multiple times based on your GM's dis-
cretion.
Pact Gift
[PATRON STAT]
Prerequisites: All of your Patron's Major Gifts, GM Per-
mission
Effect: You gain your Patron's Pact Gift. Lower Panthe-
on Legendaries do not have Pact Gifts.
The Blessed and Damned
­46­
Signer
Where The Touched themselves are changed by their Patrons, Signers more act on the behalf of a deity. Powers
they gain more are channeled through them than controlled themselves, and as such they are not always as readily
available as those of others.
Both Messiahs and Signers use Blessings for their features. These are different from Gifts, and are unique to these
two classes. Messiahs and Signers utilize Blessings in different ways. They are discussed in greater detail in their
own section.
Signer
[PATRON STAT]
Prerequisites: Touched, GM Permission
Static
Effect: Choose a Rank 1 Blessing. You gain this Blessing in the form of a Sign. Signs store the energy of the Divine,
and may be activated as a Swift Action. Signs can be used once per Scene, and cost 1 AP to activate.
Sign Mastery
[Ranked 4] [PATRON STAT]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Signer, GM Permission
Rank 2 Prerequisites: A Major Gift, GM Permission
Rank 3 Prerequisites: All your Patron's Major Gifts, GM Permission
Rank 4 Prerequisites: A Pact Gift, GM Permission
Static
Effect: You acquire two Blessings in the form of Signs, marked with the Sign Mastery Rank you are gaining or
lower. You must additionally meet any Prerequisites of the Blessing.
If your Patron does not have a Pact Gift, you instead require all their Major Gifts to attain Rank 4.
The Blessed and Damned
­47­
Messiah
While all Touched individuals have been blessed on some level, Messiahs make up a very small number of the
already limited Touched population. These beings have devoted large portions of their lives to assisting their
Patron, and act as their right hand in matters they themselves cannot. While this may sound similar to Signers,
Signers are less spiritually tied to their Patrons than Messiahs are ­ for while a Signer can channel Blessings
through their Signs, the Messiahs require no such medium.
Both Messiahs and Signers use Blessings for their features. These are different from Gifts, and are unique to these
two classes. Messiahs and Signers utilize Blessings in different ways. They are discussed in greater detail in their
own section.
The Blessed and Damned
­48­
Messiah
[PATRON STAT]
Prerequisites: Touched, GM Permission
One Time Use/5 - Extended Action
Effect: Your Connection with one of your Patrons has reached such a point that even you are capable of perform-
ing the miracles they are renowned and worshiped for. Expending a use of Messiah allows you to perform such
a miracle. For example, in a Region where Shaymin is known to restore withered forests to their former glory, a
Touched who is a Messiah of Shaymin might be able to cause a forest to start to rapidly recover from the aftermath
of a wildfire. Such acts are usually, but not always, noticeably supernatural and divine.
In My Name
[Ranked 4] [PATRON STAT]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Messiah, GM Permission
Rank 2 Prerequisites: Completed a task on behalf of your Patron, GM Permission
Rank 3 Prerequisites: A Major Gift, GM Permission
Rank 4 Prerequisites: A Pact Gift, GM Permission
Static
Effect: You acquire a Blessing marked with the In My Name Rank you are gaining or lower. You must additionally
meet any Prerequisites of the Blessing.
If your Patron does not have a Pact Gift, you instead require all their Major Gifts to attain Rank 4.
The Blessed and Damned
­49­
Branded
The Branded are individuals who have made a deal with a devil. They have become literally branded in some
form as proof as the contract, and while they will receive what they wished for, the stakes are always high in such
transactions, and the devil always gets what's due. They and their followers will constantly observe, follow, and
hound you to accelerate the process, and may potentially trick or threaten into situations where you will fulfill the
contract.
This look vague? Cause it's supposed to be. The contracts come in many forms and
types, and it's expected a storyteller whose introducin' one would be talkin' to the con-
tractee in detail with it. The big intent here isn't small things, but big ones, like `I want
the power to raise the dead,' and the cost being, `When you eventually depart from
this world yourself, your soul is mine to keep.' It's big things, big nasty things from
big nasty mother hubbers you wanna eat your babies but are polite enough to be all
legal like about it. Though keep in mind, storytellers, this doesn't really always gotta
be this way. This could be a rather interesting way to become Touched by Giratina, in
a sense, by making the deal more an annoyance, a favor, or a drawback than a dire
threat to one's existence. Also, feel free to make up your own Brands!
The Blessed and Damned
­50­
Branded
[PATRON STAT]
Prerequisites: GM Permission
Static
Effect: You have made a contract with a deity or other supernatural being and have been Branded for it. This
Brand may or may not be of your choosing. The other party will uphold their side of the deal and expects you to
do the same. Other Legendaries may be wary to grant you Gifts in the future based on the contents of this contract.
Your Patron Stats for this feature are those of the being you made your contract with. If this being was not a typical
Legendary, its Patron Stats are its two highest base stats.
Carrion Scent
Effect: Your sense of smell is enhanced, giving you the
ability to track living things, as well as deceased, with
little effort. However, you will forever smell of a corpse
yourself.
Mark of the Damned
Effect: You gain a literal Brand in the form of an unset-
tling tattoo on a noticeable part of your body, such as
your face, hands, legs, arms, or torso. It may also take
the form of a deformation such as one of your eyes be-
coming noticeably cursed or other such markings. This
Brand allows the one who placed it upon you to com-
municate with you and locate you at any time, any they
may even have advice or offer to help you on occasion.
Stigmata
Effect: You have a permanent pain in your wrists and
feet, and whenever you have more than 3 Injuries, you
will bleed from these points of pain. This bleeding will
not allow you to recover from these Injuries without ex-
tensive medical care and rest. However, you no longer
take max HP penalties from Injuries.
Total Solitude
Effect: You completely lose your Aura and gain the
Mindlock Capability. This makes you untraceable to
Aura Readers, but you also cannot receive Aura Pulse or
Telepathic messages at all. If you have a Psychic related
class other than Type Ace, Channeler or Aura Guard-
ian, your Feats in these classes are refunded.
Twisted Form
Effect: Your very being becomes warped, taking on as-
pects of the one who Branded you. You gain the El-
emental Types they possess as well as a +4 to Intimi-
dation checks, but receive a -4 penalty on Charm and
Guile checks, as these deformations are unsettling to
most people and Pokémon.
The Fate of the Branded
Branded might be a single feature, but its consequences
are a large one. Trainers who venture down this path
are faced with a lot of challenges, and often steep conse-
quences. Their contractor is likely to harass them, pres-
sure them, coerce them, threaten them and use guile to
further ensnare them.
That said, not all hope is lost. By trying to win over
other Patrons and seeking out the weaknesses of their
Contractor, a Branded individual might through their
own due diligence win their way out of their contract
via a challenge or a loop hole. How you approach this
as a GM is up to you, and there are plenty of sources
around you as inspiration for hooks of this nature in
all sorts of flavors. Maybe they must find a way to ban-
ish their contractor to another plane, or challenge their
contractor to a rock off and emerge victorious, but the
key point is not even the devil himself always gets his
way.
The Brands
Yup, this one right here makes an
excellent idea for an alternate way
to make someone Touched. Lot less
severe than the others. Well, some-
what. I sure wouldn't want Giratina
bein able to know when I'm in the
restroom.
The Blessed and Damned
­51­
Usurper
Some don't just seek the powers of the divine, they seek to be divine. Long in history have been tales of mortals
usurping the title of Godhood, and such a pattern persists till this day. It is hardly an easy thing to accomplish,
and wins one many enemies along the way. Those who claim this title had best be prepared to defend it, for they
won't last long otherwise...
Usurper is one of the highest shenanigan advancement options in this book. It's a very morbid concept, and comes
with a lot of power. This is the sort of concept you want to make sure folks are on the same page about including
as a player option, but it makes a -great- tool for building villians.
There's oft questions about how Usurpers handle taking damage between their forms. The way this works is quite
simple - when an Usurper takes damage in one form, both forms lose HP equal to the final amount of damage
dealt. If they are knocked out in one form, but not the other, they default to the still concious form. Also, the
following Edge is available to Usurpers to utilize their Features.
The Blessed and Damned
­52­
Shared Strengths
[Ranked 3] [PATRON STAT]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Pokemon Form Level 20
Rank 2 Prerequisites: Pokemon Form Level 35
Rank 3 Prerequisites: True Power, Pokemon Form
Level 50
Rank 1 Effect: You gain access to your Legendary
Form's Abilities while in your Avatar form.
Rank 2 Effect: You gain your Legendary Form's Types
while in your Avatar Form
Rank 3 Effect: You gain access to your Legendary
Form's Move List while in your Avatar Form.
True Power
[PATRON STAT]
Prerequisites: Shared Strengths Rank 2, Pokemon
Form Level 40
Static
Effect: You gain one of the Domains and its corre-
sponding Legendary Aura associated with your Leg-
endary Form. This Feature may be taken multiple
times, but with the second time at Pokemon Form
Level 60, and the third at Pokemon Form level 75.
Gift of Power
[PATRON STAT]
Prerequisites: Pokemon Form Level 60
One Time Use
Target: A Trainer
Effect: You gift your target with a Blessing of your own.
Whether this makes them Touched, a Signer, or Brand-
ed is at your digression. The actual Blessings may not
need be the one listed here for your Legendary Form,
but ones of your own creation at your GM's discretion.
Usurper
[PATRON STAT]
Prerequisites: You have slain a God and through occult ritual or technology have absorbed its essence.
Static
Effect: Your human form is now considered your Avatar, and you gain a second set of stats for your Pokémon
form. This form is that of the Legendary you usurped, starts at level 1 with the nature and abilities of your choice,
and may gain experience as if it were a Pokémon you owned. Switching between your human form and this one
takes a Standard Action. Usurpers cannot receive Gifts or Blessings from other Legendaries, as they are divinity
themselves now. Any Touched, Branded, Messiah, and Signer Edges and Features you possessed up until this point
are refunded. The Patron Stats for this Feature and all other Usurper Features matches the stats of the Legendary
you Usurped.
Your Legendary Form, by default, has access to all
Capabilities, Abilities and Moves your Avatar does.
