The Blessed and Damned
­55­
Legendary Blessings
Rank 1 Blessings
Ancient Wisdom
Messiah: Static
Signer: Free Action
Messiah Effect: You gain an extra Dice on Education:
Occult checks, as well as any Check dealing with Occult
topics or situations.
Signer Effect: You may use Ancient Wisdom while
making an Education: Occult check to add an additional
Two Dice.
Blessed Strike
Messiah: Scene x3 ­ Free Action
Signer: Free Action
Trigger: You hit an enemy with a Struggle Attack
Messiah Effect: Your Struggle Attack's Type matches
that of your Patron. If your Patron has two Types,
choose one.
Signer Effect: Your Struggle Attack deals Typeless
Damage.
Paragon
Messiah: Static
Signer: Swift Action
Messiah Effect: When you take Paragon, choose either
Body, Mind or Spirit. You gain +2 to all Skill Checks
made with Skills under that group.
Signer Effect: You instead choose one of these Skill
Groups, and gain a +1 bonus to this all Skill Checks
under this category. This lasts until the end of the
Scene. You may choose a different Skill Group each
time you activate Paragon.
Spirit Mending
Messiah: Daily x3 ­ Standard Action
Signer: Standard Action
Target: A Pokémon or Trainer
Messiah Effect: When using Spirit Mending, choose
one of the following: The Target is Heals 30 HP, or the
Target recovers two Injuries.
Signer Effect: The target recovers 50 HP and one Injury.
Rank 2 Blessings
Blessed Power
Prerequisites: Blessed Strike
Messiah: Static
Signer: Swift Action
Messiah Effect: Choose a Damaging Move on your
Patron's Level Up List that has a Damage Base of 8 or
lower and matches one of their Types. You learn this
Move.
Signer Effect: You instead gain this chosen Move until
of combat. You may choose a different Move each time
you activate this Sign.
Luck of the Gods
Prerequisites: Paragon
Messiah: Daily ­ Free Action
Signer: Free Action
Messiah Trigger ­ You fail a Skill Check or Accuracy
Roll.
Signer Trigger ­ You roll a Skill Check or Accuracy
Roll.
Messiah Effect: You may reroll this Skill Check or
Accuracy Roll.
Signer Effect: You may add +4 to this Skill Check or +2
to this Accuracy Roll.
Soul Mending
Prerequisites: Spirit Mending
Messiah: One Time Use/10 - Extended Action
Signer: Interrupt
Messiah Trigger: A Trainer or Pokémon dies.
Signer Trigger: A Trainer or Pokémon is reduced
below 0 HP.
Messiah Effect: Your divine powers allow you to
intervene, saving the Target's life. They are set to 5
Injuries that will heal at half the normal rate, and 1 HP.
Signer Effect: The Target receives no further injuries
after being reduced below 0 HP. If being Knocked Out
alone would set them to 10 injuries, they instead are set
to 9 Injuries.
The Blessed and Damned
­56­
Rank 3 Blessings
Blessed Resilience
Prerequisites: Blessed Power
Messiah: Static
Signer: Standard Action
Messiah Effect: Choose two Types your Patron has
Resistance or Immunity to. You gain Resistance to
these types.
Signer Effect: Choose a single Type your Patron has
Resistance or Immunity to. You gain this Resistance to
this Type until the end of the Scene. You may choose
a different Type each time you use Blessed Resilience.
Insight of the Great Ones
Prerequisites: Ancient Wisdom
Messiah: Scene - Swift Action
Signer: Swift Action
Signer Target: A Pokémon or Trainer.
Messiah Effect: You become aware of any Pacts, Patrons,
or Allegiances the Target may have to a Legendary being
or any organizations. If this Target has a particular
weakness (Both Narrative and mechanical), you
become aware of it. You also become aware of any goals
or motives the Target might possess at the moment.
Signer Effect: You learn one of the Target's weaknesses
(Narrative or mechanical). If this target aligned to a
Legendary or an organization, you become of aware of
this fact, but not of who or what in particular. You also
learn if this Targets motives or goals would harm your
Patron or their followers.
