The Blessed and Damned
­53­
General Legendary Gifts
Among the more general Gifts that can be granted by
Legendaries, there are a number that simply aid in living
in this world where humans can be touched by gods and
given a spark of divinity. These such Gifts allow one to
identify others who have received Gifts or even in some
rare specific circumstances be able to shut down their
Gifts.
Gift of Command
While many times Legendary Pokémon simply have
separate domains, sometimes there is a distinct
hierarchy among them. In these cases, the hierarchy
passes down to the Gifted as well. While this does not
allow those Gifted by, say, Ho-oh to directly command
someone Gifted by Raikou or Entei, it does allow them
a measure of ease in detecting those who have the Gifts
of the subservient Legendary Pokémon and the ability
to disable their powers.
The following Legendary Pokémon have subservient
Pokémon to them:
Lugia: Articuno, Zapdos, Moltres
Ho-oh: Entei, Raikou, Suicune
Rayquaza: Groudon, Kyogre
Landorus: Thundurus, Tornadus
Regigigas: Regice, Regirock, Registeel
Cobalion: Virizion, Terrakion, Keldeo
Gift of Command
[PATRON STATS]
Prerequisites: One Major Gift from Your Patron
Legendary
Static | 2 AP - Standard Action, Interrupt
Static Effect: You sense the presence of and can identify
those with Gifts coming from your patron's subservient
Pokémon. You know which Gifts someone has from
your patron's subservient Pokémon by looking at them.
2 AP Effect: Target Trainer within 8 meters with a Gift
from your patron's subservient Pokémon has the Gift
of your choice from that subservient Pokémon disabled
for the next ten minutes.
Symbolsight
Each Legendary Pokémon holds dominion over a set
of domains, and with these domains come particular
symbols. A Legendary who presides over War may take
the Spear or the Sword as its symbol, while a master
of Creativity is symbolized by the Pen, and guardians
of Death itself are marked by a Skull or Tombstone.
Even without the blessing of a Legendary, humans can
often be influential in these domains themselves, such
as a powerful politician's effect on the realm of Law or a
famous civil rights activist's influence upon Peace.
Symbolsight is the ability to perceive these symbolic
connections between mortal and divine realms. When
perceiving a Trainer or Pokémon through Symbolsight,
one can see their form change to match the symbols of
their Patron's realms or, as a weaker manifestation, to
match the realms they are influential in despite a lack
of Legendary Gift.
Viewed through Symbolsight, a Trainer with the Gifts
of Cobalion may appear to have three swords sheathed
on their person, the emblem of a knight, and a scale of
justice hanging above their head. A famous mechanic
and artisan may appear with the stains of their work
upon them, a faint imprint of their tie to the domain of
Creation, whereas a Trainer Gifted by Regigigas would
have a more substantial manifestation - their hands
appear as a blacksmith's hammerheads, the glowing
sparks of a forge fly all about them, and each step they
take leaves an imprint of soot upon the ground that
quickly disappears.
Pokémon in the service of a Legendary or objects with a
mystical connection to a Legendary or its domains also
appear with the symbols of their Patron when viewed
through Symbolsight. Ordinary inanimate object and
mundane people and Pokémon appear as normal
through Symbolsight.
Note that Symbolsight is a useful Feature to give to a PC
who is otherwise uninvolved in the acquisition of Gifts
from Legendaries to avoid excluding them too much
from a Legendary-heavy plot-line. It especially fits
highly perceptive PCs, those with mystical or psionic
talents, or someone who performs extensive hands-on
The Blessed and Damned
­54­
research on the supernatural.
Symbolsight
[PATRON STAT]
Prerequisites: GM Permission
Static | 1 AP - Standard Action
Target: Self
Static: You know when there are people, Pokémon, or
objects that would appear differently to you through
Symbolsight within an area of you about the size of a
small town. You do not know their location, number, or
distance from you, only that there is at least one within
the range of your sense.
1 AP Effect: For the next ten minutes, you see the world
through the lens of Symbolsight. You may end this
effect early as a Free Action.
Giftsapper
There are those for whom the Gifts of a Legendary are
anathema. The reasons may vary greatly depending on
what's possible in your campaign and setting - they may
simply have had a cursed birth or were at the epicenter
of a supernatural disaster, or they may have specifically
studied arcane arts to combat the Gifted. Either way,
these individuals have no ability to gain Gifts of their
own but pose a potent danger to the Gifted by making it
more difficult for them to use their powers when nearby.
Giftsapper is also a potent Feature to give antagonists
facing off against a Gifted party.
Giftsapper
[+Any Stat]
Prerequisites: GM Permission, No Gifts
Static
Effect: As long as Giftsapper's user is conscious, all
Trainers within 10 meters must make a Focus Check
with DC equal to three times the highest Skill Rank
of Giftsapper's user between Focus, Intimidate, or
Command in order to activate their Gifts. This Check
is made each time a Trainer attempts to use an activated
Gift, and a failure means neither any resources such
as AP nor the frequency of the Gift is expended. For
Gifts with Static or ongoing effects, the Check is made
each turn, and a failure ends the effect for that turn.
Giftsapper's user may never gain Gifts.
Godslayer
This gift is a very curious one ­ one only the Higher
Pantheon, some Outsiders, and Arceus himself can
bestow. Normally reserved for the greatest champions
or followers of a God, this gift grants the Trainer the
ability to shatter Legendary Auras. Doing so can
effectively grant this mortal the power to commit
deicide. This gift doesn't always come in the same
fashion ­ it might be from an artifact or a gift, such
as a weapon, piece of armor or amulet. It might come
from extensive training or require extremely rare and
expensive reagents. Or it might just be a divine gift in
its own right. The specifics are a minor detail; the gift
itself is one to be handled with great care.
Godslayer
[PATRON STAT]
Perquisites: GM Permission
Standard Action ­ EOT
Target: A Legendary Pokémon.
Effect: You may attempt to shatter one of the target's
Legendary Auras. The AC of this action is 10. If you
successfully disabled the Aura, but rolled a 10-15, the
feedback from the action gives you an Injury.
