Indices and Reference
339
Move Keywords
Aura: Moves with this Keyword manipulate Aura and
may be affected by certain Abilities or effects.
Berry: Natural Gift has a different Damage Base and
Elemental Type based on the Berry the user has stored a
Digestion Buff from. Consult the Chart below.
Berry DB Type Berry DB Type
Cheri 6 Fire Watmel 8 Fire
Chesto 6 Water Durin 8 Water
Pecha 6 Electric Belue 8 Electric
Rawst 6 Grass Occa 6 Fire
Aspear 6 Ice Passho 6 Water
Leppa 6 Fighting Wacan 6 Electric
Oran 6 Poison Rindo 6 Grass
Persim 6 Ground Yache 6 Ice
Lum 6 Flying Chople 6 Fighting
Sitrus 6 Psychic Kebia 6 Poison
Figy 6 Bug Shuca 6 Ground
Wiki 6 Rock Coba 6 Flying
Mago 6 Ghost Payapa 6 Psychic
Aguav 6 Dragon Tanga 6 Bug
Iapapa 6 Dark Charti 6 Rock
Razz 6 Steel Kasib 6 Ghost
Bluk 7 Fire Haban 6 Dragon
Nanab 7 Water Colbur 6 Dark
Wepear 7 Electric Babiri 6 Steel
Pinap 7 Grass Chilan 6 Normal
Pomeg 7 Ice Liechi 8 Grass
Kelpsy 7 Fighting Ganlon 8 Ice
Qualot 7 Poison Salac 8 Fighting
Hondew 7 Ground Petaya 8 Poison
Grepa 7 Flying Apicot 8 Ground
Tamato 7 Psychic Lansat 8 Flying
Cornn 7 Bug Starf 8 Psychic
Magost 7 Rock Enigma 8 Bug
Rabuta 7 Ghost Micle 8 Rock
Nomel 7 Dragon Custap 8 Ghost
Spelon 7 Dark Jaboca 8 Dragon
Pamtre 7 Steel Rowap 8 Dark
Roseli 8 Fairy Maranga 8 Dark
Kee 8 Fairy
Blessing: Safeguard, Lucky Chant, Reflect, and Light
Screen provide a Blessing shared by the entire team. All
Pokémon and Trainers allied to the user may benefit
from the Blessing. The Blessing persists until it's used
up, even if the original user is KO'd or switched out.
Coat: Moves with the Coat keyword give the targets
a certain effect while the Coat persists. Coats may be
passed on by Baton Pass.
Dash: A Dash Move cannot be used if the user is Stuck.
Double Strike: Whenever a Move with Double Strike
is used, make two Attack Rolls. If one Attack Roll hits,
the Move does damage as indicated by its Damage Base
value; if both Attack Rolls hit however, the Damage
Base value is doubled. Each hit may Critically Hit
separately; when adding damage from Critical Hit, add
the Damage Base before it's doubled. For example, if one
Double Kick attack is a Critical Hit, add +1d8+5 to the
damage roll. If both are Critical Hits, add +2d8+10.
Environ: A Pokémon using a Move with the Environ
keyword consults the chart below for what Move or
effect to use.
Area Nature Power
Move
Secret Power Effect
Grassland Grass Knot Sleep
Forest Energy Ball Sleep
Wetlands Mud Bomb Lowers Speed by -1 CS.
Ocean Bubble Beam Lowers Attack by -1 CS.
Tundra Aurora Beam Freezing
Mountain Power Gem Flinch
Cave Ancient Power Flinch
Urban Tri-Attack Paralysis
Desert Earth Power Lowers Accuracy by -1.
Execute: These Moves automatically KO the target if
they hit. The 1d100 roll may not be modified in any way
or re-rolled through any means.
Exhaust: If a Move has the Exhaust keyword, the user
forfeits their Standard and Shift actions on their next
turn, and forfeits their trainer's Command. If any of
these actions has already been used up, the move Fails
and does not activate.
Indices and Reference
340
Friendly: Moves with the Friendly Keyword do not hit
allies.
Five Strike: Whenever a Move with Five Strike is used,
roll 1d8. On a result of 1, the attack hits one time. On
a result of 2 or 3, the attack hits two times. On a result
of 4, 5, or 6, the attack hits three times. On a result of
7, the attack hits four times. On a roll of 8, the attack
hits five times. Multiply the Move's Damage Base by
the number of times hit; that becomes its new Damage
Base. You may always apply Technician to Moves with
Five Strike. Apply STAB and all other effects that raise
Damage Base only after the Move's final Damage Base
has been calculated.
Groundsource: Moves with the Groundsource keyword
do not have their Accuracy modified by targeting into
Rough Terrain and ignore Blocking Terrain.
Hazard: If a Move has the Hazard keyword, the effect
covers a portion of the field of battle. A Hazard only
affects the foes under certain circumstances. You may
put extra Layers of the Move with Hazard if the Move
allows, but only one per usage of the Move.
Illusion: These Moves are Illusions, and may be ignored
by Trainers with the Clairsentient Feature.
Interrupt: Interrupt Moves may be declared in the
middle of another combatant's turn to allow the user
to take an action. They work similarly to Priority
(Advanced, Limited) effects in that they only allow you
to take the action that has Interrupt and not a full turn.
Pass: At any point during a Shift, the user may declare a
move with the Pass keyword. Once the Move is declared,
the user may move forward only in a straight line, for up
to 4 meters, treating foes as Regular Terrain and moving
through any enemies in its path. The user must end in
an empty square. The Pass Move attacks all targets in
each square it dashes through, but each target may be
hit only once. The user must end their Shift at the end
of the dash. Shifting as a result of the Pass keyword does
not provoke Attacks of Opportunity.
Fling: The Move Fling is very unique! Its effect depends on the held item of the user. If used a Trainer, they must
throw an item in either hand.
Item Damage
Base
Effect
Consumables No
Damage
The target of the attack takes no damage, and instead consumes the thrown item.
This includes Basic Restoratives and Herbs, but not Bandages, Refreshments, or
other items that are used as an Extended Action. When used this way, Restoratives
don't cause the target to forfeit a turn.
Poison Items DB 3 The target becomes Poisoned. This category includes Toxic Orbs, and Poison-Type
Boosters, Braces, and Plates.
Fire Items DB 3 The target becomes Burned. This category includes Flame Orbs, and Fire-type
Boosters, Braces, and Plates.
Poké Balls DB 3 A Capture Attempt may be made after damage is applied, if the ball is thrown at a
valid target. This category includes all Poké Balls and Apricorn Balls.
Other DB 6 Anything not specifically falling in any other category.
Held Items DB 7 This has no special effect. This category includes all Evolutionary Stones,
Keepsakes, and Held Items not otherwise listed here.
Rare Item DB 10 This includes the Metal Powder, Rare Leek, Thick Club, and Pink Pearl Items, but
only if the user is able to benefit from that item.
Lagging Item DB 12 This includes Iron Balls, and any Lagging Item.
Weapon See
Effect
The user instead makes a ranged Struggle Attack using the thrown Weapon to
determine damage, but using Fling's Accuracy.
Indices and Reference
341
Pledge: Pledge Moves can generate a number of special
effects. A Rainbow lasts for 5 rounds and increases the
Effect Range of all allies' attacks by +3. A Fire Hazard
is a special type of Hazard. Any targets that begin or
end their turn on a Fire Hazard are Burned. Anyone
that passes through a Fire Hazard takes damage equal
to 1/8th of their Max Hit Points. If a Ground, Rock,
or Water-Type Move targets a square (or a target in a
square) with Fire Hazard in them, the Fire Hazards are
destroyed. All effects that destroy Hazards extinguish
Fire Hazards.
Powder: Moves with the Powder keyword have no effect
on Grass Type Pokémon.
Priority: If the user has not already acted this turn, a
Move with the Priority keyword may be declared to act
immediately; the user takes their full turn, ignoring
initiative. This counts as their turn for the round. A
priority Move may not be declared during someone else's
turn; it must be declared between turns. Priority also
comes in Priority (Limited) and Priority (Advanced)
varieties. The Priority (Limited) keyword is like Priority
except the user may not take their full turn; they may
only take the action that itself has Priority and take the
rest of their turn on their own Initiative Count. For
example, Orders are Priority (Limited), meaning the
user only uses their Standard Action and does not take a
full turn. Priority (Advanced) Moves don't require that
the user hasn't acted that turn; if they have, they simply
give up their turn on the following round.
Push: The target of the attack is Pushed a specified
amount of meters. Unless specified, the Push direction
should be away from the user.
Reaction: Reactions work exactly like Interrupts, except
that they happen after the triggering condition is fully
resolved, instead of before. Thus, the user must survive
the trigger condition to be able to perform the reaction.
Recoil: When a Move says to Recoil, total the amount of
damage the target took from your attack, then multiply
by the fraction paired with the Keyword Recoil. The
Move's user loses Hit Points equal to that result.
Set-Up: These are two-turn Moves which require the
user to prepare in some way. On the first turn, the
Set-Up Effect is used; then on the following turn the
Resolution Effect occurs.
Shield: Moves with this Keyword are Interrupts that
are triggered by foes' attacks. They usually prevent the
effect of attacks in some manner.
Smite: When Moves with the Smite keyword Miss,
instead of doing no damage, they deal damage as if
the attack were resisted one step further. Targets dealt
damage this way do not suffer any secondary effects of
the Move.
Social: Moves with the Social Keyword are based on
social manipulation. They cannot be Intercepted and
ignore the effects of Substitute. Some Features and
other effects also take advantage of this Keyword.
Sonic: Moves with the Sonic Keyword are based on
sound. They ignore the effects of Substitute.
Spirit Surge: A Move with the Spirit Surge keyword will
have its Effect activate even if the Move does not hit a
target. If the Move requires a certain Accuracy Roll, the
roll must still be met.
Trigger: Moves with the Trigger keyword are ONLY
able to be used whenever the condition in their Effect
line is met.
Vortex: While in a Vortex, the target is Slowed, Trapped,
and loses a Tick of Hit Points at the beginning of each
turn. At the end of each turn, the user may roll 1d20
to end all of these effects; during the first turn, they
must roll a 20 or higher to dispel the vortex. The DC is
lowered by 6 each following turn, automatically wearing
off on the fifth turn (20, 14, 8, 2, Dispel)
Weather: Moves with the Weather keyword affects
an area, changing the rules of the battle. Damage can
be altered and even the Effects of moves can change
depending on the Weather in battle. There can only
be one Weather Effect in place at a time; new Weather
Effects replace old Weather Effects. Weather Conditions
last 5 rounds.
Note that despite their names, Weather Conditions are
not usually found as natural occurrences. A bright and
sunny day does not count as Sunny Weather, nor does
rain count as Rainy Weather. However, particularly
severe examples of the corresponding weather can
count. For example, a tropical rainstorm could count as
Rainy weather.
Indices and Reference
342
The following are the four Weather Conditions and
their effects:
Hail: While it is Hailing, all non-Ice Type Pokémon lose
a Tick of Hit Points at the beginning of their turn.
»
» Blizzard cannot miss in Hail.
»
» Users with Ice Body recover a Tick of Hit Points at
the beginning of each turn.
»
» Users with Snow Cloak have their Evasion increased
by +2 and adjacent allies are not damaged.
»
» Users with Thermosensitive have Movement
Capabilities reduced by half.
Rainy: While Rainy, Water-Type Attacks gain a +5
bonus to Damage Rolls, and Fire-Type Attacks suffer a
-5 Damage penalty.
»
» Thunder and Hurricane cannot miss in Rain.
»
» Users with Hydration are cured of one Status
Affliction at the end of each turn.
»
» Users with Rain Dish recover a Tick of Hit Points at
the beginning of each turn.
»
» Users with Swift Swim have their Speed Combat
Stages increased by +4.
»
» Users with Desert Weather gain 1/16th of their Max
Hit Points at the end of each turn.
»
» Users wth Dry Skin gain a Tick of Hit Points at the
end of each turn.
Sandstorm: While it is Sandstorming, all non-Ground,
Rock, or Steel Type Pokémon lose a Tick of Hit Points at
the beginning of their turn.
»
» Users with Sand Force gain a +5 Damage Bonus to
Ground, Rock, and Steel-Type Moves.
»
» Users with Sand Rush have their Speed Combat
Stages increased by +4.
»
» Users with Desert Weather are immune to
Sandstorm.
Sunny: While Sunny, Fire-Type Attacks gain a +5 bonus
to Damage Rolls, and Water-Type Attacks suffer a -5
Damage penalty.
»
» Thunder and Hurricane are AC 11 in Sun.
»
» Users with Dry Skin lose a Tick of Hit Points at the
end of each turn.
»
» Users with Thermosensitive have their Attack and
Special Attack Combat Stages increased by +2.
»
» Users with Desert Weather resist Fire-Type Moves
one step further.
»
» Users with Sun Blanket gain 1/16th of their Max Hit
Points at the beginning of each turn.
»
» Users with Leaf Guard are cured of one Status
Affliction at the end of each turn.
»
» Users with Harvest automatically retain uses of
Digestion Buffs.
»
» Users with Chlorophyll have their Speed Combat
Stages increased by +4.
»
» Users with Flower Gift can create a Burst 4 that
increases the Stats of allies and the user by two 2
Combat Stages, distributed as they wish.
Users with Forecast change their Type based on the
Weather. Fire-Type if Sunny, Water-Type if Rainy, Ice-
Type if Hailing, and Rock-Type if in a Sandstorm.
Weather Ball changes Types in Weather. Fire-Type if
Sunny, Water-Type if Rainy, Ice-Type if Hailing, and
Rock-Type if in a Sandstorm.
Weight Class: A Move with the Weight Class Keyword
refers to the following.
Weight Class 1 0 ­ 25 lbs; 0 ­ 11 kg
Weight Class 2 25 ­ 55 lbs; 11 ­ 25 kg
Weight Class 3 55 ­ 110 lbs; 25 ­ 50 kg
Weight Class 4 110 ­ 220 lbs; 50 ­ 100 kg
Weight Class 5 220 ­ 440 lbs; 100 ­ 200 kg
Weight Class 6
Any Pokémon heavier than 440 lbs;
200 kg
Weight Class 7
Any Pokémon heavier than 450 lbs
with the Heavy Metal Ability.
