Indices and Reference
337
Moves are the main forms of Pokémon Attacks in
Pokémon Tabletop United. Pokémon may know a
maximum of 6 Moves; Trainers may know as many
Moves as their Features allow. Moves are, unless stated
otherwise, performed as a Standard Action. Moves in
this documented are presented like this:
Move: Attack Order
Type: Bug
Frequency: EOT
AC: 2
Damage Base 9: 2d10+10 / 21
Class: Physical
Range: 6, 1 Target
Effect: Attack Order is a Critical Hit on 18+.
Contest Type: Smart
Contest Effect: Incentives
Move: The first line contains the Name of the Move. This
is of course, what you use to keep track of the Move, and
write down in your Pokémon's Move List.
Type: Next is the Elemental Type of the Move. There
are Bug, Dark, Dragon, Electric, Fairy, Fighting, Fire,
Flying, Ghost, Grass, Ground, Ice, Normal, Poison,
Psychic, Rock, Steel and Water Moves! This will
determine Type Effectiveness since Moves are broken
up by their respective Type.
Frequency : The Frequency is the rate of use. There are
five levels of Frequency for Moves.
»
» At-Will means your Pokémon can perform the
attack as often as it'd like, with no rest needed to
perform the attack again.
»
» EOT is an abbreviation for Every Other Turn, and
it means your Pokémon can perform the move once
every other turn. If your Pokémon uses an EOT
frequency Move outside of battle, it would need ten
seconds of rest before performing the move again.
»
» Scene X: This Frequency means this Move can be
performed X times per Scene. Moves that simply
have the Scene Frequency without a number can be
performed once a Scene. Moves that can be used
multiple times a Scene can still only be used Every
Other Turn within a Scene and not on consecutive
turns.
»
» Daily is the lowest Frequency. This Move's Frequency
is only refreshed by an Extended Rest, or by a visit
to the Pokémon Center. Moves that can be used
multiple times Daily can still only be used once
a Scene and not multiple times within the same
Scene.
»
» Static, like with Features, means this Move has some
effect that is always granted to the user, as long as
they know this Move.
Accuracy Check: The Accuracy Check is used when
a Pokémon uses a Move as an Attack. The Accuracy
Check is the number you need to match or exceed on
your Accuracy Roll in order for the Attack to connect to
your target. See the Combat chapter for details.
Damage Base: This indicates the base amount of
damage dealt. See the `Damage' section in the Combat
Chapter for more details (page 236). Many Abilities and
other effects can modify Damage Bases.
Moves
The following two pages
are important, and you
should read them.
Of particular note, look at how the Scene and Daily
frequencies work for Moves. They aren't quite the
same as how they might work for Features or other
effects that have a Frequency.
Indices and Reference
338
Class: Class will denote whether the attack is Physical,
Special or Status. Physical Attacks are resisted by
Defense; Special Attacks are resisted by Special Defense.
Some attacks may be Physical or Special but not have
Damage Dice Rolls; that means the damage these attacks
do still interact with other effects such as Counter or
Mirror Coat that specify a damage class. Status Moves
are simply moves that are neither Physical nor Special.
Range: Range specifies the distance in meters from
which the Move can hit. Keywords are also inserted
in this line; see the following section for a detail of
keywords. Besides the standard numerical distances,
other common distances include Melee, Self, and Field.
Self moves simply target the user; Melee Moves have a
range of 1, and thus must target an adjacent target. The
Field Range drops an effect on the entire area where the
battle is taking place. When using area-of-effect Moves,
such as ones with the Burst or Cone keywords, make a
single Accuracy Roll for the entire attack.
Effect: The Effect lists what the attack does in addition
to the Move's damage. Certain effects will only occur
if, during Accuracy Roll, a certain number or higher
is rolled. Effects do not activate unless the Move hits.
Effect Ranges can be extended by other effects. For
example, an effect that triggers on 18+ that has its Effect
Range extended by +2 now triggers on 16+.
Effects such as Features and Abilities that extend the
Critical Hit or Effect Ranges of a Move cannot extend
them by more than a total of +6 from their natural
ranges.
Contest Type/Effect: These two Contest Fields indicate
what Contest Type the Move is tied to. There are only 5
different Contest Types: Beauty, Cool, Cute, Smart, and
Tough. The Contest Effect determines what effect the
move has in Contests. See the Contest chapter for more.
Special: Some Moves grant Capabilities to Pokémon and
Trainers learning the Move. When a Move is forgotten,
all Capabilities granted by the Move are also lost.
