Pokémon
204
Poké Edges
While many Features allow Tutor Points to be spent to improve your Pokémon, that does not mean Tutor Points
need to sit idly if you don't have access to those Features.
After an hour of training, Pokémon may spend Tutor Points to gain any of the Poké Edges listed below, provided
they meet all prerequisites. If a Pokémon ever loses prerequisites for a Poké Edge they have, it is removed and the
Tutor Points refunded.
Stat and Skill Poké Edges
Pokémon do not need to be limited by their natural
inclinations. Trainers can use these Poké Edges to allow
their Pokémon to excel in unexpected ways.
Skill Improvement
Prerequisites: None
Cost: 1 Tutor Point
Effect: Rank up one Skill that is currently at or below
its default level for the species. This Edge may be taken
multiple times, each time selecting a different Skill.
Note: If Evolution or another permanent effect would
cause the Skill Rank to go beyond 6, this Poké Edge is
refunded.
Attack Conflict
Prerequisites: None
Cost: 1 Tutor Points
Effect: Select Attack or Special Attack. From now on,
that Stat does not need to remain higher than Stats it
surpasses in Base Relations, and similarly all other Stats
surpassed by it do not need to remain lower.
Mixed Sweeper
[Ranked 3]
Rank 1 Prerequisites: Level 10, Invested at least 5 Level-
Up Stat Points into both Attack and Special Attack
Rank 2 Prerequisites: Level 20, Invested at least 10
Level-Up Stat Points into both Attack and Special Attack
Rank 3 Prerequisites: Level 40, Invested at least 15
Level-Up Stat Points into both Attack and Special Attack
Cost: 1 Tutor Point each Rank
Effect: Each Rank, the user gains 3 Stat Points to
distribute freely between HP, Defense, Special Defense,
or Speed. These bonus points are treated as if they were
"Level Up" points, and do not alter Base Stats.
Note: The Stat points gained at Level 1 count as "Level
Up" points for the purposes of meeting prerequisites, to
be clear.
Underdog's Strength
Prerequisites: Level 15, User is an Underdog Pokémon
Cost: 1 Tutor Point
Effect: The user has each of their Base Stats increased by
+1. The user may no longer undergo Evolution.
Realized Potential
Prerequisites: Level 30, User is an Underdog Pokémon
Cost: 2 Tutor Points
Effect: Subtract the user's Species Base Stat Total from
45. The user gains Bonus Stat Points equal to the remain-
der. These Stat Points must follow Base Stat Relations as
normal. If the user evolves to a species with a Base Stat
Total 45 or higher, Realized Potential is removed and
the Tutor Points refunded.
Note: This is going off of the SPECIES Base Stats. Don't
add in Stats from Vitamins, Features, Natures, or any-
thing else. Okay? Okay.
Ability and Move Poké Edges
While all Pokémon can make use of their Abilities and
Moves, skilled Trainers can teach their Pokémon to
learn more of those techniques or refine them.
Ability Mastery
Prerequisites: Level 60
Cost: 3 Tutor Points
Effect: The Pokémon gains an additional Ability, picked
from any Ability it could naturally qualify for.
Advanced Connection
Prerequisites: An Ability with the Connection Keyword
Cost: 1 Tutor Point
Effect: Choose an Ability with the Connection Keyword
that the target has; the Connected Move no longer takes
up a Move Slot for the user.
Pokémon
205
Accuracy Training
Prerequisites: Level 20
Cost: 1 Tutor Point
Effect: Pick a Move with an AC of 3 or higher; the AC
of the target Move is permanently lowered by 1. This
Poké Edge may be taken up to three times, each time
selecting a different Move.
Underdog's Lessons
Prerequisites: Underdog's Strength
Cost: 1 Tutor Point
Effect: Choose a Level-Up Move from one of the user's
Final Evolutions that it can learn at or below its current
Level. The user learns that Move as if it were a Level-
Up Move and can now learn Moves from TMs, HMs,
and Tutoring from the lists of that Final Evolution.
Underdog's Lessons may be taken up to three times but
must use the same Final Evolution each time in the case
of Pokémon with multiple Final Evolutions.
Capability Poké Edges
Many Pokémon have Special Capabilities that represent
innate talents made possible by their unique biology
or elemental powers. While every Pokémon can use
their family line's Capabilities, Trainers can guide their
Pokémon to further hone their skills in these talents.
Capability Training
Prerequisites: Level 20
Cost: 1 Tutor Point
Effect: Increase Power or a Jump Capability by 1.
Capability Training may be taken multiple times, each
time increasing a different Capability.
Advanced Mobility
Prerequisites: Level 20
Cost: 1 Tutor Point
Effect: Increase one Movement Capability by 2. This
Edge may be taken multiple times, but may not be applied
more than once to the same Movement Capability.
Basic Ranged Attacks
Prerequisites: Level 20, one of Firestarter, Fountain,
Freezer, Guster, Materializer, or Zapper
Cost: 1 Tutor Point
Effect: Choose one of the Capabilities listed in the
prerequisites for this Poké Edge. Struggle Attacks
modified by that Capability may now be made at a range
of up to 6 meters. This Poké Edge may be taken multiple
times, selecting a different Capability each time.
Aura Pulse
Prerequisites: Level 30, Aura Reading, owned by a
Trainer with Aura Pulse
Cost: 2 Tutor Points
Effect: The Pokémon gains the Aura Pulse Capability.
Enticing Bait
Prerequisites: Level 20, Alluring Capability
Cost: 1 Tutor Point
Effect: When activating the Alluring Capability, the
user adds the higher of its Athletics or Focus Ranks to
its d20 roll.
Extended Invisibility
Prerequisites: Level 20, Invisibility Capability
Cost: 1 Tutor Point
Effect: The user may remain Invisible for up to 8
minutes.
Far Reading
Prerequisites: Level 20, Telepath Capability
Cost: 1 Tutor Point
Effect: The user treats their Focus Rank as 2 higher for
the purposes of determining the range of Telepath.
Precise Threadings
Prerequisites: Level 20, Threaded Capability
Cost: 1 Tutor Point
Effect: The user may use their Threaded Capability at
a range of 6 meters and with an AC of 3 rather than 6.
Seismometer
Prerequisites: Level 20, Tremorsense Capability
Cost: 1 Tutor Point
Effect: The user's Tremorsense range is increased by a
number of meters equal to their Perception Rank.
TK Mastery
Prerequisites: Level 20, Telekinetic Capability
Cost: 1 Tutor Point
Effect: The user treats their Focus Rank as 2 higher for
the purposes of the Telekinetic Capability.
Trail Sniffer
Prerequisites: Level 20, Tracker Capability
Cost: 1 Tutor Point
Effect: The user gets a bonus to all Perception Rolls to
use the Tracker Capability equal to their Focus Rank.
