Skills, Edges, Feats
35
Acrobatics
Acrobatics is a Body Skill that represents how well a
character can jump, keep their balance, and in general
conduct themselves physically with swiftness and
grace. Characters with a high Acrobatics Rank tend
to be highly agile and well-coordinated, and it reflects
in their activities. Gymnasts, parkour practitioners,
circus performers, and dancers would all have a high
Acrobatics Rank.
The Acrobatics Skill is used to make skill checks
when your character has to perform physical
tasks requiring a great deal of precision and
finesse, usually, but not always, tied to jump-
ing and moving about.
Some situations where you might roll Acrobatics include
keeping your balance as you shimmy across a perilous
ledge, jumping across slippery stones in a river, and
dodging out of the way of falling debris from a cave-in
or an earthquake.
Outside of jumping and moving around, Acrobatics has
uses when hand-eye coordination is required. Accurate
throwing and juggling both rely on Acrobatics, and you
will want a high Acrobatics Rank for exact tasks like
switching a golden statue on a booby-trapped pedestal
with a bag of sand.
Opposed Acrobatics Checks are used for races through
obstacle courses or difficult terrain and for determining
who recovers their footing first after being thrown off
balance by unstable ground.
Acrobatics can be used to mitigate damage taken
from falling from great heights, as found in the Combat
chapter (page 249). Acrobatics is also used to mount
a Pokémon in the middle of battle and keep mounted
even when under attack or affected by Status Afflictions
(page 218). Acrobatics can be tested during Intercept
Maneuvers (page 242).
Acrobat
Prerequisites: Novice Acrobatics
Effect: Increase your Jump and Long Jump Capabilities
by +1 each.
Kip Up
Prerequisites: Expert Acrobatics
Effect: You may stand up from being Tripped as a Swift
Action.
Mounted Prowess
Prerequisites: Novice Acrobatics or Athletics
Effect: You automatically succeed at Acrobatics and
Athletics Checks made to mount a Pokémon, and you
gain a +3 Bonus to all Acrobatics and Athletics Checks
made to remain Mounted.
Nimble Movement
Prerequisites: Adept Acrobatics or Stealth
Effect: Whenever you Disengage, you Shift 2 meters
instead of 1.
Throwing Masteries
Prerequisites: Adept Acrobatics
Effect: Increase the Throwing Range of your Poké Balls,
Ranged Weapons, and other small items by +2.
Wallrunner
Prerequisites: Expert Acrobatics
Effect: You may run on vertical surfaces both vertically
and horizontally for up to your Acrobatics Rank in
meters before jumping off.
Skills, Edges, Feats
36
Athletics
Athletics is a Body Skill that represents physical
training and endurance developed through
sports and exercise. Characters with a high
Athletics Rank tend to be very active and
either spend time training their physique or
have physically strenuous occupations.
The Athletics Skill is used to make general skill
checks whenever your character's physical endurance is
tested, such as when running, climbing, or jumping.
Some situations where you might make use of the
Athletics Skill are when climbing a tree or the
side of a cliff in the wilds and when trying
to keep yourself afloat in the ocean during
a storm. A GM may also call for Athletics
Checks during a day of long travel, especially
over treacherous terrain, to determine how fatigued
your characters become from the long and continuous
exertion.
Opposed Athletics Checks can be called for determining
who tires out first during an extended chase or for
someone holding a door closed against someone trying
to push it open.
When in doubt, if characters are taking actions that
involve strenuous physical activity but not necessarily
anything that requires precision and finesse, Athletics
is the go-to skill. A GM may also simply look at a char-
acter's Athletics Rank and make a judgment call about
whether or not that character is able to perform a cer-
tain task without becoming fatigued. If a GM assigns
penalties for exhaustion, Athletics may be consulted in
that case as well.
Having a high Athletics Skill improves a character's
movement speed and throwing range. See Step 6 of
Character Creation for further details (page 16). It is also
used when fishing (page 217). Athletics can be tested
when using Intercept Maneuvers (page 242). Carrying
especially heavy loads also requires continuous Athletics
Checks (page 222).
Athletic Initiative
Prerequisites: Adept Athletics
Effect: You learn the Move Agility.
Mounted Prowess
Prerequisites: Novice Acrobatics or Athletics
Effect: You automatically succeed at Acrobatics and
Athletics Checks made to mount a Pokémon, and you
gain a +3 Bonus to all Acrobatics and Athletics Checks
made to remain Mounted.
Power Boost
Prerequisites: Expert Athletics
Effect: Increase your Power Capability by +2
Swimmer
Prerequisites: Novice Athletics or Survival
Effect: You gain +2 to your Swim Speed. You may spend
X minutes underwater before you begin to suffocate,
where X is the higher of your Athletics or Survival
Ranks.
Stamina
Prerequisites: Expert Athletics or Expert Combat
Effect: Whenever you Take a Breather or take Massive
Damage or a Critical Hit, you gain Temporary Hit
Points equal to your Athletics or Combat Rank after the
triggering action has resolved.
Skills, Edges, Feats
37
Combat
Combat is a Body Skill that represents training in physical fighting and specialized battle techniques. Combat can
represent formal schooling in unarmed martial arts, weapons training, or simply very good street fighting and
brawling.
Not surprisingly, most uses of the Combat Skill take place in battle. Specifically, Combat is tested when performing
certain Combat Maneuvers, including Pushing, Tripping, Grappling, and Disarming. Having a high Combat Skill
also improves the damage and accuracy of a character's Struggle Attacks (page 240).
Having a high Combat Rank is also important to making the best use of Weapons. Simple and Fine Quality
Weapons grant their wielder Moves that can only be used by a Trainer with a high enough Combat Rank.
That isn't to say Combat has no use outside of battles. Opposed Combat Checks can be used for two characters
grabbing at the same item or trying to push each other around without trying to seriously injure one another. One
can also make use of the Combat Skill in martial arts performances or to break down obstacles with brute force.
Basic Martial Arts
Prerequisites: Novice Combat
Effect: You learn the Move Rock Smash.
Stamina
Prerequisites: Expert Athletics or Expert Combat
Effect: Whenever you Take a Breather or take Massive
Damage or a Critical Hit, you gain Temporary Hit
Points equal to your Athletics or Combat Rank after the
triggering action has resolved.
Skills, Edges, Feats
38
Intimidate
Intimidate is a Body Skill that governs the use of scare tactics and
coercion to force others to act in one's favor. It is a Skill that is
lacking in subtlety compared to the other socially oriented Skills,
but it can often compel results from otherwise unwilling parties
where the others would fail. Expect to burn bridges and make no
friends this way, however.
Characters with a high Intimidate Rank tend to be physically
imposing even when they're silent and not acting. They
often find work as club bouncers and bodyguards. Gang
leaders and ranking members of criminal organizations also tend to
have high Intimidate Ranks.
Common uses of Intimidate include scaring off wild Pokémon, bullying a guard
into letting you through, and warding off potential muggers and pickpockets
when walking through the shadier parts of town. Despite the often
unsavory uses of the Skill, Intimidate is also often used to avoid violence
and getting into a fight when it would be disadvantageous.
Intimidate is not typically rolled as an Opposed Check. However,
special circumstances may exist, such as a group of Trainers facing
off against a criminal Team, with both of them trying to scare a
pack of wild Pokémon into fighting on their side against the other.
Intimidate may also be used in an Opposed Check against Focus to
attempt to disrupt someone doing careful or difficult work.
Beast Master
Prerequisite: Novice Intimidate
Effect: You may use Intimidate instead of Command to
make Pokemon at 0 or 1 Loyalty obey your commands.
You may also use Intimidate instead of Command
to determine the limits and Bonus Experience from
Training.
Intimidating Presence
Prerequisites: Novice Intimidate
Effect: You learn the Move Leer
Bad Mood
Prerequisites: Expert Intimidate
Effect: Your Critical Hit Range is increased by +1 if you
are suffering from a Persistent Status Affliction. Your
Critical Hit Range is increased by +1 if you are suffering
from a Volatile Status Affliction. These stack with each
other, giving a total of +2 to Critical Hit Range if you
are suffering from both a Persistant and a Volatile Status
Affliction.
Grace
Prerequisites: Novice Charm, Command, Guile,
Intimidate, or Intuition
Effect: Your Pokémon may consume and benefit from
2 more Poffins each. If this Pokémon is traded to a
Trainer without the Grace feature, these extra dice from
additional Poffins are not lost, but a Trainer without
Grace may not benefit from more than 6 Dice gained
from Poffins. You may always use any of the Skills that
are prerequisites for Grace in the Introduction Stage of
a Contest to roll for Contest Stat Dice of any kind.
Demoralize
Prerequisites: Adept Intimidate
Effect: Whenever you land a Critical Hit on a foe, that
foe becomes Vulnerable. Status-Class Moves with an
Accuracy Roll can "Crit" for the purposes of activating
this effect on a natural roll of 19 or higher, and any ef-
fects that expand your Critical-Hit Range also expand
this range.
Skills, Edges, Feats
39
Stealth
Stealth is a Body Skill that represents a
character's ability to hide, sneak, and
generally move and act undetected.
Stealth is often associated with less
than legal occupations, such as thieves
and assassins, but characters with
high Stealth Ranks could also easily
act on the side of law enforcement or
as field researchers studying reclusive
or violent Pokémon.
While the most common usage of
Stealth is to move around unseen and
unheard, the Skill also covers sleight
of hand tricks and larceny, meaning
it is tested when a character attempts
to pickpocket someone or pick a
lock. Acts of escape artistry and
sleight of hand tricks also fall un-
der the purview of Stealth; for ex-
ample, characters may make use of
the Skill to free themselves from bindings or slip out of a trap.
Stealth can be a lifesaver in dangerous situations, allowing a Trainer to ambush their foes or even sneak by them
altogether. Even when these options are impossible, Stealth may be used to covertly perform reconaissance and
gather information.
In Opposed Checks, Stealth is, of course, almost always paired with Perception. However, an Opposed Check may
be made between Stealth and an enemy's crafting-related skill such as Technology Education or Occult Education
if a character is attempting to slip out of magical restraints or open a lock another character constructed.
Art of Stealth
Prerequisites: Expert Stealth
Effect: You gain the Stealth Capability.
Sneak's Tricks
Prerequisites: Adept Stealth
Effect: You learn the Move Astonish.
Nimble Movement
Prerequisites: Adept Acrobatics or Stealth
Effect: Whenever you Disengage, you Shift 2 meters
instead of 1.
Slippery
Prerequisites: Novice Stealth
Effect: You may use your Stealth Skill when defending
in Opposed Grapple, Push, or Trip checks. When Grap-
pling, if you win an Opposed Check when using Stealth,
you must choose to end the Grapple (you cannot choose
to gain Dominance).
Expert Trickster
Prerequisites: Adept Stealth
Effect: You gain a +2 Opposed Checks with all Dirty
Trick Maneuvers. The "Once per Scene per Foe"
Limitation of each Dirty Trick Maneuver is expended
only upon successfully affecting a foe with that Dirty
Trick Maneuver.
Skills, Edges, Feats
40
Survival
Apricorn Balls
Prerequisites: Novice Survival or Adept Technology
Effect: As an Extended Action, you may craft Apricorns
into their corresponding Poké Ball. Use of this Feature
requires access to a Poké Ball Tool Box.
Green Thumb
Prerequisites: Novice General Education or Novice
Survival
Effect: You know how to grow Apricorns and Tier 1
Berries using a Portable Grower or Fertilized Soil.
Traveler
Prerequisites: Novice Survival
Effect: You may use Survival instead of Athletics and
Acrobatics to determine your Power Capability, High
Jump, and Long Jump values. Determine your Overland
Movement by substituting your Survival Rank for the
lower of your Athletics or Acrobatics Rank.
Paleontologist
Prerequisites: Novice Pokémon Education or Novice
Survival
Effect: You can identify fossils with a DC 10 Pokémon
Education or Survival Check. You know how to operate
Reanimation Machines and can use them to revive
Fossils. See the "Pokémon Fossils" section (page 216)
for more information.
Survival Drive
Prerequisites: Adept Survival
Effect: You learn the Move Bulk Up.
Survival is a Body Skill that governs all sorts of
wilderness activities, from starting a fire, to building
shelter, to making a trail through heavy brush and
shrubbery. Characters with a high Survival Rank spend
a lot of time outdoors. Pokémon Rangers and Trainers
concerned with conservation efforts and Safari Zones
tend to have high Survival Ranks.
Survival can be used in almost any situation in the
outdoors, whether it be navigating a snowstorm,
foraging for food, or simply setting up camp for the
night. It can be used to identify Mushrooms (page 281)
that can be picked in the wild as well.
A common use of Survival is to take half an hour or an
hour to scout out an area and learn basic information
about it ­ the common Pokémon of the area and what
Apricorns or Berries are commonly found in it. For
light density wilderness areas such as a savanna or small
forest, the DC should be easy for anyone who's invested
in Survival ­ about a 12. Moderately complex ecosystems
such as a foggy wetland may require a check of 16 or so.
Denser or harsher areas of wilderness such as tropical
rainforests or frigid arctic ecosystems may require a
check of 20+. Succeeding by a margin of success of at
least 4 should usually result in additional info, such as
identifying signs of rare Pokémon or plants.
More than just finding the means to live in the wilds,
Survival also covers geology and geography and enables
a Trainer to search for useful items, such as Elemental
Stones and Fossils (page 216). Spelunking also falls
under the purview of Survival.
Survival can also be used to track someone through the
wilderness. This is usually an Opposed Check between
a Trainer's Survival and their target's Stealth. However,
certain environments may make tracking easier or more
difficult. Impose a circumstantial penalty to a target
being tracked through a desert or to the tracker trying
to find signs of movement through a dark gloomy cave.
Despite counting as a Body Category Skill, Survival
also counts as an Education Skill.
Skills, Edges, Feats
41
General Education
Green Thumb
Prerequisites: Novice General Education or Novice
Survival
Effect: You know how to grow Apricorns and Tier 1
Berries using a Portable Grower or Fertilized Soil.
Instruction
Prerequisite: Novice General Education
Effect: Whenever you aid an ally in an Assisted Skill
Check using an Education Skill you have at Novice
Rank or higher, add your full Rank value as a bonus to
their roll instead of half.
Scholar
Prerequisites: Expert General Education
Effect: You gain a +1 Bonus to Skill Checks with General
Education, Medicine Education, Occult Education,
Pokémon Education, Technology Education, and
Survival.
Groomer
Prerequisites: Novice Pokémon Education or Novice
General Education
Effect: You know how to effectively groom your Pokémon
with access to a Groomer's Kit. You may groom up to 6
Pokémon in one hour. Grooming Pokémon may count
as an hour of Training, and you may apply Experience
Training, teach Poke-Edges, and apply any Features
that could be applied during Training. If you apply
Experience Training from Grooming, use your General
Education or Pokémon Education Rank to determine
Bonus Experience gained during Training. A Pokémon
that has been Groomed also gains a +1d6 Bonus to the
Introduction Roll of a Contest for the rest of the day.
General Education is a Mind Skill that covers well-
rounded academic learning. The universal coursework
covered through mandatory schooling along with a
liberal arts education are most representative of the
General Education Skill.
Characters with a high General Education Rank tend
to be masters of trivia and local or regional knowledge,
though they often have specializations in more narrow
fields such as literature, history, and philosophy. It's a
good idea to think about a field of expertise or two to
give the Skill more personal flavor.
Of course, General Education also encompasses basic
training in mathematics, natural sciences, and other
common fields. However, it's safe to assume that most
characters know the basics unless they have a Pathetic
Rank in General Eduction.
General Education
is most often tested
when characters are
faced with issues of
politics and current
events, such as
knowing about the
stances of local Gym
Leaders or government officials on political issues or
being familiar with the details of recent news stories.
Knowledge of history is also a common usage; it can
be useful to know that the reason a town is wary of the
party is because they have a Camerupt with them and
a pack of that Pokémon was responsible for devastating
the town half a decade back.
Another way to treat General Education is as a catch-all
Skill for a particular setting, covering common issues
that aren't associated well with other Education Skills
but are important to the setting. A campaign with a
law enforcement focus might use General Education
to cover police protocol and the law, while a wild west
campaign might use General Education to cover dueling
etiquette and other narrative standbys in frontier life.
While General Education isn't specialized in itself, it
also represents a character's skill in conducting research.
Obviously, you should use more specific Education
Skills instead when the sought after information is
highly advanced or it is more relevant.
General Education, like most Education Skills, doesn't
have very many applications in Opposed Checks. At
most, it might be used in a race determining who can
research a specific piece of information first.
Skills, Edges, Feats
42
Medicine Education
Medicine Education is a Mind Skill that covers the
science of healing and mending. It covers a wide range
of situations, from performing first aid in the field to
growing organs and limbs in a lab. Characters with a high
Medicine Education Rank usually spend a significant
amount of time studying Pokémon and human biology
alike in order to effectively treat patients of all different
species.
While the damage and Injuries taken in combat in
Pokémon Tabletop United typically don't exceed flesh
wounds, Medicine Education can certainly be used to
treat more traumatic injuries that aren't modeled in the
mechanics, such as broken bones and infected wounds.
While away from the conveniences of modern hospitals
and Pokémon Centers, Medicine Education Checks
may be necessary to construct a splint for a broken
limb or to clean and dress a particularly nasty wound to
avoid infection.
Beyond simply treating the wounds of battle, characters
with training in Medicine Education are also useful
when it comes to diagnosing diseases such as Pokérus
or perhaps ailments stemming from malformed
Evolutionary Stones and the dangerous radiation they
might give off.
In some extreme cases, characters may have to not only
diagnose these ailments but invent new treatments
altogether to deal with them. The process of medical
research and inventing new medications is of course
governed by Medicine Education.
Outside of treatment and diagnosis, Medicine Education
represents broader projects of biology intended to
further understanding of Pokémon and human bodies
and even enhance them. Although this is usually
limited to higher tech settings, Medicine Education can
certainly be used to conduct gene therapy or produce
other biological augmentations. Other more blatantly
"mad science" projects may require complex steps with
Medicine Education Checks involved along the way.
Characters with sufficient training in Medicine
Education can operate devices called Wonder Launchers
which allow them to administer combat drugs to their
Pokémon from a distance.
Medic Training
Prerequisites: Novice Medicine Education
Effect: When you use Restorative Items on others, they
do not forfeit their next turn.
Repel Crafter
Prerequisites: Novice Medicine or Technology Edu
Effect: Create a Repel for $100 or a Super Repel for
$150. Requires access to a Chemistry Set.
Skills, Edges, Feats
43
Occult Education
Occult Education is a Mind Skill that governs knowledge
of all types of supernatural lore and phenomena.
Characters with a high Occult Education Rank can have
incredibly varied interests and areas of expertise, and
this is often dependent on the specific campaign.
Much of the knowledge that falls under Occult
Education is particularly esoteric and unknown to the
public at large. This can range from passed down tales
of Legendary Pokémon and ancient places of power in
the world to the functioning of supernatural powers
such as Aura Reading and Psychic powers.
While other Skills may govern the use of those powers,
in this case Intuition and Focus respectively, Occult
Education can be thought of as the science that studies
how and why those powers function.
Some situations where Occult Education might be
tested include studying magical ancient ruins such as
the Ruins of Alph, researching lore about long-forgotten
Legendary Pokémon, or studying a strange Psychic
phenomenon or malformed Aura in a location.
These can be common occurrences in one campaign but
rare in another. Whether or not the Occult Education
Skill sees common use varies by campaign to campaign,
so it's a good idea for the players and GM to talk about
this before characters are created.
Not only will it vary whether or not Occult Education is
widely used as a Skill, but the particular function of the
Skill will vary as well. In one campaign, occultists would
be expected to be knowledgeable about ancient ruins,
while in another, ancient ruins may be largely mundane
while Legendary Pokémon are the focus of occult stud-
ies. Characters developed around Occult Education
tend to have widely ranging specializations, and it is a
good idea to discuss not only if the Occult Education
skill will be useful in general but whether a character's
area of expertise is relevant to a campaign.
The Occult Education Skill is also closely associated
with Ghost Type Pokémon and their unique capabilities,
such as turning invisible and phasing through walls. As
such, Occult Education is tested when a Trainer applies
a Cleanse Tag to ward against phantasmal intruders,
and it also allows Cleanse Tags to be used to remove
several of the Status Afflictions that Ghost Types often
inflict (page 302).
Additionally, Occult Education is used in the operation
of Dowsing Rods (page 284), which Trainers use to find
energized Shards that are used for a variety of crafting
purposes.
Occult Education is such a varied Skill that it is
often difficult to nail down its
uses in Opposed Checks.
However, when two sides
are competing for control
of an arcane artifact or
enacting rituals involving
the Unown or other
mystical Pokémon,
Opposed Occult
Education Checks
could be called for.
Gem Lore
Prerequisites: Novice Occult Education
Effect: As an Extended Action, you may turn a Shard
into a Gem of one of its associated Types. Additionally,
you can turn 4 Red Shards into a Fire Stone; 4 Blue
Shards into a Water Stone; 4 Yellow Shards into a
Thunder Stone; 4 Orange Shards into a Shiny Stone; 4
Green Shards into a Leaf Stone; or 4 Violet Shards into a
Dusk Stone. You can also destroy any of these six Stones
to gain 4 Shards of the corresponding color.
Tag Scribe
Prerequisites: Novice Occult Education
Special - Extended Action
Effect: You create a Cleanse Tag. This may be used a
number of times each day equal to half your Occult
Education Rank.
Skills, Edges, Feats
44
Pokémon Education
Pokémon Education is a Mind Skill that governs one's knowledge about Pokémon. This ranges from simple practical
knowledge such as the diets and caretaking needs of various species to more specialized scientific topics such as
Pokémon Evolution and the biology of unusual Pokémon species.
In a world where many institutions are entirely built around the use of Pokémon, it makes sense that they are the
focus of much academic research. Pokémon Education is immensely useful in the field when encountering wild
Pokémon, of course, and it can be used to understand their behavior patterns, needs, and their means of attack and
weaknesses. Being well-versed in Pokémon Education can mean the difference between recognizing the signs of
an Ursaring's marked territory and stumbling into the cave of an angry bear.
Dedicated Pokémon battlers also obviously have uses for Pokémon Education. While Type Effectiveness, a
Pokémon's Types, and basic information about how their Stats lean or what kinds of Moves they prefer is considered
to be common knowledge for anyone without Pathetic Rank Pokémon Education, more detailed information
that one would find in the Pokédex such as when specific Moves are learned will generally require
higher Ranks in Pokémon Education to recall from memory.
When new Pokémon species are discovered, or variants of existing species come to
light, Pokémon Education can be tested to learn about their traits or at least
make educated guesses. In more everyday situations, it can be used to identify
which Pokémon species are involved in a situation, such as discerning from
claw marks left on a shed door what kinds of Pokémon have been breaking into
a village's food supply.
Breeders also make use of Pokémon Education to keep track of their work, as the
Skill can be tested to identify the species of Pokémon eggs.
Breeder
Prerequisites: Novice Pokémon Education
Effect: If you are able to give two Pokémon that are
compatible for breeding at least 4 hours of time alone,
you may make a Pokémon Education Check with a DC
of 12. If you succeed, the Pokémon are guaranteed to
produce an egg if you give them an additional 4 hours.
Paleontologist
Prerequisites: Novice Pokémon Education or Novice
Survival
Effect: You can identify fossils with a DC 10 Pokémon
Education or Survival Check. You know how to operate
Reanimation Machines and can use them to revive
Fossils. See the "Pokémon Fossils" section (page 216)
for more.
Groomer
Prerequisites: Novice Pokémon Education or Novice
General Education
Effect: You know how to effectively groom your Pokémon
with access to a Groomer's Kit. You may groom up to 6
Pokémon in one hour. Grooming Pokémon may count
as an hour of Training, and you may apply Experience
Training, teach Poke-Edges, and apply any Features
that could be applied during Training. If you apply
Experience Training from Grooming, use your General
Education or Pokémon Education Rank to determine
Bonus Experience gained during Training. A Pokémon
that has been Groomed also gains a +1d6 Bonus to the
Introduction Roll of a Contest for the rest of the day.
PokéPsychologist
Prerequisites: Novice Pokémon Education
Effect: You may use your Pokémon Education Skill
instead of Charm, Guile, Intimidate, or Intuition when
making general Skill checks to interact with Pokémon
or to raise or lower disposition.
Skills, Edges, Feats
45
Technology Education
Apricorn Balls
Prerequisites: Novice Survival or Adept Technology
Effect: As an Extended Action, you may craft Apricorns
into their corresponding Poké Ball. Use of this Feature
requires access to a Poké Ball Tool Box.
Basic Balls
Prerequisites: Novice Technology
Effect: You may craft Basic Balls for $100 and Great
Balls for $175. Requires access to a Poké Ball Tool Box.
Poké Ball Repair
Prerequisites: Basic Balls or Apricorn Balls
Effect: You may attempt to fix any Poké Ball that
has failed to capture a Pokémon and broke. Make a
Technology Check with a DC of 15. If you succeed, the
Poké Ball is fixed and is treated as if it had not broken. If
you fail, the ball is permanently broken. Requires access
to a Poké Ball Tool Box.
Repel Crafter
Prerequisites: Novice Medicine or Technology Edu
Effect: Create a Repel for $100 or a Super Repel for
$150. Requires access to a Chemistry Set.
Technology Education is a Mind Skill that governs the creation and use of machines and technology, ranging from
the ubiquitous Poké Ball to computers and vehicles. Characters with a high Technology Education Rank tend to
have many gadgets and can easily find their way around a factory, engineering workshop, or chemistry lab.
Mechanical, chemical, and electrical engineering are the main fields covered by Technology Education, but
materials science and computer science also fall under its purview. However, important to note is that Technology
Education largely deals with the inorganic. Biology, organic chemistry, and similar fields are better
suited to the Medicine Education Skill. Even if gene therapy treatments might require advanced
technology, they don't primarily concern themselves with machines or chemicals and don't fall
under Technology Education.
Some situations that call for Technology Education include repairing a vehicle
or piece of machinery, cracking electronic locks or hacking into computer
databases, and building a custom piece of equipment such as an octopus arm
backpack. The world of Pokémon also includes specialty pieces of
technology such as Snag Machines and Dream Machines which
would require Technology Education to maintain.
Criminal Teams often make a habit of creating technological
superweapons, and the Technology Education Skill helps in understanding
and shutting down those systems.
In addition, many modern traps are technological in nature. Laser tripwires, proximity sensors,
IR cameras, and mines are all part of a modern security arsenal. Dealing with or deploying such
security measures is the source of most Opposed Checks using the Technology Education
Skill.
What exactly the Technology Education Skill covers will also vary depending on the
time period of the campaign. While driving a car and operating basic computers and
electronics are common knowledge in modern times, these activities may be limited to those with the appropriate
Technology Education Rank in historical settings.
On a final note, most Trainer options using Technology Education are found in our sci-fi sourcebook, Do Porygon
Dream of Mareep?. Players and GMs are encouraged to look there for building gadgeteer and tech whiz characters!
Skills, Edges, Feats
46
Guile
Grace
Prerequisites: Novice Charm, Command, Guile,
Intimidate, or Intuition
Effect: Your Pokémon may consume and benefit from
2 more Poffins each. If this Pokémon is traded to a
Trainer without the Grace feature, these extra dice from
additional Poffins are not lost, but a Trainer without
Grace may not benefit from more than 6 Dice gained
from Poffins. You may always use any of the Skills that
are prerequisites for Grace in the Introduction Stage of
a Contest to roll for Contest Stat Dice of any kind.
Flustering Charisma
Prerequisites: Adept Charm or Guile
Effect: When you hit with a Move with the Social
keyword, the target takes a -2 penalty to Save Checks
against Volatile Status Afflictions for 1 full round.
Dynamism
Prerequisites: Novice Guile
Effect: Your initiative is increased by your
Guile Rank.
Expert Manipulator
Prerequisites: Adept Guile
Effect: You gain a +2 Opposed Checks with all
Manipulate Maneuvers. The "Once per Scene per
Foe" Limitation of each Manipulate Maneuver is
expended only upon succesfully affecting a foe with that
Manipulate Maneuver.
Confidence Artist
Prerequisites: Novice Guile
Effect: You learn the Move Confide.
Guile is a Mind Skill that governs lying, manipulation,
and general deception and subterfuge. Characters with
a high Guile Rank think quickly on their feet and are
usually clever and witty in conversation.
The most common use of Guile is to lie convincingly.
Lying with confidence and spinning believable yarns has
many applications, of course, ranging from convincing
a guard you have the right security clearance but left
your ID at home to fooling a cop into thinking they saw
someone else breaking into that house.
Aside from the obvious application, Guile also covers
a range of acting skills, from faking emotions to
pretending to be someone else entirely. Someone armed
with a high Guile Rank and a spare Team Rocket uniform
could probably bluff their way into a secret hideout
or learn the secrets of the criminal organization. This
application of Guile goes beyond blunt deception into
subtle manipulation as well, allowing a smooth talker to
use carefully worded half-truths and targeted prods at a
victim's beliefs and passions to get what they want.
Whereas Stealth would be used to hide from someone's
vision or hearing, Guile is often used to "hide in plain
sight", such as when blending into a crowd to tail
someone through a busy city. Even when there's no
hiding place around, someone with high Guile might
be able to pose as an innocuous passerby or fast-talk
their way out of suspicion.
Guile can also be thought of as a streetwise Skill,
representing how well a character can read into situations
on the street, gather information, and cut deals. Guile
can help someone haggle on the black market, tell
the difference between an undercover cop and a real
seller or buyer of illicit goods, and realize when they've
stepped somewhere they really don't belong.
Uses of Guile aren't limited to just human interactions
either. Faced with a hostile wild Pokémon that won't
be scared away, a Trainer with a high Guile Rank may
attempt to trick it into a trap or distract it long enough
to mount an escape.
Opposed checks pitting Guile against Guile might be
used in a duel of wits, but far more common is when
Guile is rolled against Intuition to decide whether or
not someone sees through another's
lies. Perception may also be rolled
against Guile when attempting to see
through a disguise.
Skills, Edges, Feats
47
Perception
Perception is a Mind Skill that represents a character's
awareness of their environment and attention to detail.
Characters with a high Perception Rank have not only
honed senses but a trained mind that knows where to
look for details others would normally miss.
Perception is tested whenever your character is faced
with a situation where they could miss a crucial detail
in their surroundings. Some examples of this include
finding a carefully laid trap in Team Rocket's hideout,
spotting a Stunfisk buried in the mud, and turning up
bloody Pokémon fur and feathers in the corner of a
crime scene.
Oftentimes, Perception is a reactive Skill, one that the
GM calls a Skill Check for rather than being initiated by
a player's actions. Naturally, if only the GM knows about
the ambush lying in wait for the PCs, then they have to
tell the players to make the Skill Checks to discover it.
Active investigation often uses the Perception
Skill as well, such as when a detective is rifling
through someone's drawers looking for
evidence of a crime or when characters
scouring an ancient ruin check a
room meticulously for traps.
Perception is by far one of
the most often used Skills in
Pokémon Tabletop United,
and nearly every type of
character can benefit from
an improved awareness
of the world around
them. However, just
Perception alone can't
solve all problems; it often
takes other specialized
knowledge Skills to make
sense of the details that a
hawk-eyed character spots.
For example, a character with high Perception might
easily spot the Unown-like inscriptions on the bottom
of a dusty clay goblet's rim, but they might need to
consult someone trained in Occult Education to make
sense of them. Traps and hidden locks might stand out
with high Perception but be otherwise impossible to
deal with without investment in the Stealth Skill.
The most common Opposed Check using Perception
is against Stealth, when one character tries to hide
from another. Perception is also often tested alongside
Acrobatics as an option for situations where it's
important to determine which character reacts faster to
a surprising or sudden event.
Skills, Edges, Feats
48
Charm
Charm is a Spirit Skill that represents how persuasive a
character is and how likable they can make themselves
seem to others. Characters with a high Charm Rank are
charismatic and warm, always knowing what to say to
draw people closer to them.
Making people agree with and like you obviously has
many uses. Charm can get you into places that would
otherwise bar you entry, help you haggle down prices,
and aid in cutting beneficial deals for you and your
companions. Charm is the Skill of diplomacy and
forging positive and constructive relationships.
This is, of course, not limited to humans. The Charm
Skill is used to improve the disposition of wild Pokémon
and can potentially be used to prevent conflict, seek help
while traveling, or gain access to precious resources
such as Berry Groves (page 215).
Remember that while Charm is a single Skill, it can
cover many different approaches to the same end.
Seduction, flattery, and emotional appeals are just a few
of the strategies that characters might employ to Charm
their targets to their side.
Charm is rarely rolled as part of an Opposed Check.
Usually, when it is applied against an NPC, the GM
will simply set a static DC rather than opposing it with
another Skill. In rare circumstances, you may wish
to compare how persuasive one character is versus
another when there is a third party evaluating both
sides' arguments.
Grace
Prerequisites: Novice Charm, Command, Guile,
Intimidate, or Intuition
Effect: Your Pokémon may consume and benefit from
2 more Poffins each. If this Pokémon is traded to a
Trainer without the Grace feature, these extra dice from
additional Poffins are not lost, but a Trainer without
Grace may not benefit from more than 6 Dice gained
from Poffins. You may always use any of the Skills that
are prerequisites for Grace in the Introduction Stage of
a Contest to roll for Contest Stat Dice of any kind.
Charmer
Prerequisites: Novice Charm
Effect: You learn the Move Baby-Doll Eyes.
Flustering Charisma
Prerequisites: Adept Charm or Guile
Effect: When you hit with a Move with the Social
keyword, the target takes a -2 penalty to Save Checks
against Volatile Status Afflictions for 1 full round.
Smooth
Prerequisites: Expert Charm or Expert Focus
Effect: You gain +4 Evasion against Moves with the
Social keyword, and gain a +2 Bonus on Save Checks
against Rage and Infatuation.
Skills, Edges, Feats
49
Command
Grace
Prerequisites: Novice Charm, Command, Guile,
Intimidate, or Intuition
Effect: Your Pokémon may consume and benefit from 2
more Poffins each. If this Pokémon is traded to a Train-
er without the Grace feature, these extra dice from ad-
ditional Poffins are not lost, but a Trainer without Grace
may not benefit from more than 6 Dice gained from
Poffins. You may always use any of the Skills that are
prerequisites for Grace in the Introduction Stage of a
Contest to roll for Contest Stat Dice of any kind.
Train the Reserves
Prerequisites: Novice Command
Effect: You may apply Experience Training to a number
of Pokemon equal to twice your Command Rank, in-
stead of equal to your Command Rank.
Note: Beast Master or Groomer do not change the Skill
that this Edge uses.
Leader
Prerequisites: Adept Command
Effect: You learn the Move After You.
Trainer of Champions
Prerequisites: Expert Command
Effect: Whenever you apply Experience Training to a
Pokemon, they gain an additional +5 Experience.
Command is a Spirit Skill representing a character's
ability to lead and inspire. Command is about having
presence and being seen and listened to. Characters
with a high Command Rank can become the center of
attention in a room with a few well-chosen words.
The most obvious and common use of the Command
Skill is in giving orders to Pokémon and particularly
retaining control of unruly or untamed Pokémon.
For example, Pokémon with Loyalty 0 or 1 require
Command checks to successfully order them in battle
(page 210).
Expanding on this notion, a Trainer's Command
Rank also affects their ability to train their Pokémon
in downtime outside of combat. The higher their
Command Rank, the more effective their training (page
202).
Outside of Pokémon-related applications, Command
has a number of uses. Command is tested when trying
to disperse a riot or when directing a panicking crowd
to safety in the aftermath of a Team Rocket terrorist
attack. For Pokémon Rangers and other members of
law enforcement, Command may be necessary to keep
subordinates in line, especially rebellious elements,
similar to low Loyalty Pokémon.
During combat, Command also lets a Trainer help their
allies Take a Breather and recover from Status Afflictions
such as Confusion and Rage (page 245).
Command doesn't have to relate to explicitly giving
orders either. It can be used to gain presence and
attention in a scene or give an impression of authority
without issuing directives. For example, while Charm
may often be tested when giving speeches to a crowd to
win them over to an idea, a character who wants to make
a show of a community's solidarity and the strength of
its leadership during a time of crisis might roll their
Command Skill instead when delivering a speech.
In Opposed Checks, Command may be used against a
foe's Intimidate to keep a crowd or a squad of allies from
falling to fear and panic. Command is also tested to help
snap allies out of supernatural mental influences, such
as powerful Legendary Pokémon or Ghost and Psychic
Types. In these cases, roll Command against the foe's
relevant Skill, usually Focus or Intimidate.
Skills, Edges, Feats
50
Focus
Focus is a Spirit Skill that represents a character's ability
to concentrate on difficult or complex tasks or to work
under pain and stress. It can be thought of as analogous
to willpower, and characters with a high Focus Rank
are often intensely driven and ambitious, or at the least
unshakable once they've dedicated themselves to a task.
The most common uses of Focus come into play
when it's rolled alongside a use of another Skill to test
how well you can concentrate on the other task. For
example, it may be a Stealth Check to pick a lock, but
if a character was suffering from the painful venomous
bite of a Seviper on their hand, they might also need
to test Focus to keep steady and concentrated on the
task. A complicated maneuver such as jumping into
the air, throwing a knife to hit a specific target, then
teleporting to a platform mid-air and pulling a lever
at an exact timing when landing would also call for a
Focus Check in addition to the Acrobatics Check that
would be invoked.
Some tasks might require Focus Checks by their very
nature, even if they're not excessively complicated.
Disarming a bomb, for example, would almost always
call for a Focus Check due to the stress of the situation.
Another example is when performing delicate actions
under the stress of being attacked in combat (page 245).
These actions always require a Focus Check.
Focus is also closely associated with a number of
supernatural abilities. The Telepathy and Telekinetic
Capabilities run off of the user's Focus Rank, for
example (page 308). In general, Focus is used for
resisting supernatural mental influence as well, such
as possession by powerful Ghosts. This is usually an
Opposed Check against the foe's Focus Skill.
Even outside of supernatural influences, emotions can
disrupt someone's ability to act in tip-top condition.
Focus is tested to keep self-control in the face of very
strong fear, anger, or other volatile emotions. Focus is
often used in an Opposed Check against Intimidate in
this context, to continue acting under duress.
Basic Psionics
Prerequisites: Elemental Connection (Psychic)
Effect: You learn the Move Confusion.
Iron Mind
Prerequisites: Novice Focus
Effect: You become aware of all attempts to read your
mind with Telepathy, whether the attempt is successful
or not.
Work Up
Prerequisites: Adept Focus
Effect: You learn the Move Work Up.
Smooth
Prerequisites: Expert Charm or Expert Focus
Effect: You gain +4 Evasion against Moves with the
Social keyword, and gain a +2 Bonus on Save Checks
against Rage and Infatuation.
Skills, Edges, Feats
51
Intuition
Intuition is a Spirit Skill that represents one's reliability
when making decisions from the gut or gaining insights
into a situation through instinct. Intuition can often
be thought of as encompassing common sense, and
characters with a high Intuition Rank will often find
themselves making the right decision on a hunch
without necessarily understanding why.
In addition, Intuition governs empathy and reading
emotions, the interpretation of body language, and
other unspoken social cues. Intuition is tested when
attempting to discern someone's emotional state or tell
whether or not they are lying or being deceitful. This
makes Intuition crucial for Trainers with aspirations of
joining law enforcement or getting involved in politics.
When presented with many clues and small bits of
information about a situation, a Trainer can call on their
Intuition Skill to try to discern connections between
the clues and filter out relevant data from the irrelevant.
Investigative characters such as detectives and spies
would do well to train their Intuition for this reason.
Finally, a number of artistic endeavors and practical
skills fall under Intuition, such as cooking. While
recipes can usually guarantee a good result, the true test
of a chef is in how well they can intuitively assemble
dishes from a variety of ingredients. Painting and other
non-performance arts are covered by Intuition, and the
interpretation of those arts and reading into an artist's
intent are as well.
In Opposed Checks, Intuition is most often rolled
against Guile to test if a character can see past another's
deception.
Basic Cooking
Prerequisites: Novice Intuition
Effect: You may create "Candy Bars" or "Baby Food"
with cooking ingredients costing 50. You may fluff the
food in any reasonable manner you like.
Mystic Senses
Prerequisites: Novice Intuition
Effect: You may use Intuition instead of Charm to
improve the disposition of Wild Pokémon. You may not
take Mystic Senses if you have the Elemental Connection
Edge, and you may not take Elemental Connection if
you have Mystic Senses.
Grace
Prerequisites: Novice Charm, Command, Guile,
Intimidate, or Intuition
Effect: Your Pokémon may consume and benefit from
2 more Poffins each. If this Pokémon is traded to a
Trainer without the Grace feature, these extra dice from
additional Poffins are not lost, but a Trainer without
Grace may not benefit from more than 6 Dice gained
from Poffins. You may always use any of the Skills that
are prerequisites for Grace in the Introduction Stage of
a Contest to roll for Contest Stat Dice of any kind.
Instinctive Aptitude
Prerequisite: Adept Intuition
Effect: Whenever you spend AP to raise your roll on
an Accuracy Roll or Skill Check, you get a +2 bonus
instead of +1. This cannot be used on Rolls made by
your Pokémon.
