New Keywords:
Healing. Add this keyword to Aromatherapy, Heal
Bell, Heal Pulse, Healing Wish, Moonlight, Recover,
Slack Off, Rest, Synthesis, and Wish.
New Capabilities:
Viral Fusion: Necrozma can assimilate other
creatures, and bonding into a single Pokémon.
As an Extended Action, Necrozma may bond with a
willing or helpless Pokémon, removing them from
play until they are released as another Extended
Action. Necrozma's Movement and Jumping
capabilities become the bonded Pokémon's, as does
Power if the bond's is higher. Necrozma's Athletics,
Acrobatics, Combat, Stealth, and Perception become
the bonded Pokémon's, though they are increased
by one rank, to a maximum of 6d6. Necrozma takes
the bond's Primary Type (or Secondary Type if its
Primary Type is Psychic) as its Secondary Type.
While bonded, the GM will designate one move as
the bonded species' Level-Up Movelist as its
`signature move'. Necrozma may add this move to its
learned movelist as long as it is bonded, following
normal movelist restrictions, as long as it is of a level
to learn it normally.
For Solgaleo, this move is always Sunsteel Strike; for
Lunala, this move is always Moongeist Beam. These
Pokémon have specific forms used while bonded.
Zygarde Cells: Zygarde is composed of many cells,
its strength determined by how many are gathered.
Using a Zygarde Cube, as an Extended Action, 10
Cells may be formed into a 10% Zygarde, and 50
Cells may be formed into a 50% Zygarde. These may
be disassembled into the number of Cells that they
were created from as an Extended Action. 100 Cells
may form either a 10% or 50% Zygarde with the
Power Construct Ability instead of Aura Break. The
resulting Zygarde may not be disassembled, but may
be changed between 10% and 50% Formes as an
Extended Action using the Cube. The GM determines
the Nature and Level of any Zygarde formed. As an
Extended Action, a Cube may Tutor Zygarde
available Cube moves for 1 TP each.
New Abilities:
Ability: Anchored
Static
Effect: Dhelmise has an Anchor token on the field,
which occupies one square as if it is Medium sized
but is otherwise ignored for cover and targeting.
Dhelmise cannot move or be moved more than 3
meters away from its Anchor, willingly or otherwise.
The Anchor token itself cannot be pushed, pulled, or
moved against Dhelmise's will in any way. Dhelmise
may shift their Anchor Token as a Swift Action,
moving it to any open space within 3 meters of itself.
Bonus: When the user Shifts the Anchor, it may
immediately afterwards originate an attack from its
Anchor if it has the appropriate action available,
giving that attack the following properties: the
attack's range changes to "Melee, 1 Target", the
attack deals +2d6 damage, and the attack's Class
changes to Physical if it wasn't already.
Ability: Battery
Scene x2 ­ Swift Action
Target: An Adjacent Ally
Effect: The target's next Special Attack deals +2d6+4
damage. If that attack is Electric-Typed, it deals
+3d6+6 more damage instead.
Ability: Beast Boost
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user's Damaging Attack causes an
opponent to Faint
Effect: The user receives +1 Combat Stage in their
highest non-HP stat.
Ability: Berserk
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user's drops to half HP or below for the
first time in an encounter, or becomes Enraged
Effect: The user receives +1 Special Attack Combat
Stage.
