New Capabilities:
Weapon Bond: As an Extended Action, Zacian and
Zamazenta may use an Ancestral Sword (Zacian) or
Ancestral Shield (Zamazenta) to become Crowned
Sword or Crowned Shield Forme respectively.
While in Crowned Forme, the Pokemon may use a
Move as though it were on its Movelist; for Zacian
this is Behemoth Blade, and for Zamazenta this is
Behemoth Bash.
This form lasts until the Pokémon is Fainted or
voluntarily relinquishes it as an Extended Action.
New Abilities:
Ability: Ball Fetch
Scene ­ Free Action, Reaction
Trigger: A Pokémon is Released onto the battlefield
Effect: The user may move up to their speed as a
Free Action. They must end this movement closer to
the triggering Pokémon.
Ability: Cotton Down
Scene ­ Free Action, Reaction
Trigger: The user is hit by an attack
Effect: All Pokémon in a Burst 1 around the user
have their speed lowered by 1 CS, and are Slowed
for one full round.
Ability: Dauntless Shield
Static
Effect: The user's default Defense Combat Stages are
increased by +1.
Ability: Flavorful Aroma
At-Will ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user uses Aromatic Mist
Effect: Connection ­ Aromatic Mist. All allies
affected by Aromatic Mist gain +1 to Accuracy Rolls
and +5 to Damage Rolls for one full round.
Ability: Gorilla Tactics
Scene ­ Swift Action
Trigger: The user uses a Move
Effect: The user gains a +10 bonus to damage rolls
until the end of the Scene, including on the
triggering Move. However, until the end of the
Scene, they may only use Moves that they have
already used in this Scene before triggering this
Ability (the triggering Move is included in those
usable).
Ability: Gulp Missile
Scene x2 ­ Free Action
Trigger: The user uses Stockpile, Surf, or Dive
Effect: Connection ­ Stockpile. The next time the
user is damaged, it rolls an AC 4 Physical Attack
against the attacker, even if the user Faints. On a hit,
the target loses 2 ticks of HP. In addition, if the hit
roll was successful, on an even roll the target is
Paralyzed; on an odd roll, the target instead loses 1
Defense CS.
Ability: Hunger Switch
Static
Effect: At the beginning of each of the user's turns,
the user must choose whether it's in Full Belly Mode
or Hangry Mode until the beginning of its next turn.
In Full Belly Mode, it gains a +2 bonus to Accuracy. In
Hangry Mode, it gains a +5 Bonus to Damage Rolls.
Ability: Ice Face
Static
Effect: The user begins the battle with two ticks of
temporary hit points. As a Standard Action in Hail,
they may gain two ticks of temporary hit points. The
user is immune to damage from Hail. While the user
has Temporary Hit Points from this Feature, it is in
Ice Face form, otherwise it is in Noice Face form.
Ability: Ice Scales
Static
Effect: The user resists Special Moves one step
further. Defensive.
